
--- page 1 ---
  
     
      
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
      
     
    
      
   
    
     
      
    
    
  
    
     
       
    
       
   
       
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
An Overview: 
Recording Work -Related Injuries and Illnesses 
The Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Act of 1970 requires certain employers to prepare and maintain records of work-related injuries and illnesses. Use these 
definitions when you classify cases on the Log. OSHA’s recordkeeping regulation (see 29 CFR Part 1904) provides more information about the definitions below. 
What do you need to do? 
1. Within 7 calendar days after you receive 
information about a case, decide if the 
case is recordable under the OSHA 
recordkeeping requirements. 
2. Determine whether the incident is a new 
case or a recurrence of an existing one. 
3. Establish whether the case was work-
related. 
4. If the case is recordable, decide which 
form you will fill out as the injury and 
illness incident report. 
You may use OSHA’s 301: Injury 
and Illness Incident Report or an 
equivalent form. Some state workers 
compensation, insurance, or other reports 
may be acceptable substitutes, as long as 
they provide the same information as the 
OSHA 301. 
How to work with the Log 
1. Identify the employee involved unless it is 
a privacy concern case as described 
below. 
2. Identify when and where the case 
occurred. Also describe the case, as 
specifically as you can. 
3. Classify the seriousness of the case by 
recording the most serious outcome 
associated with the case, with column G 
(Death) being the most serious and 
column J (Other recordable cases) being 
the least serious. 
4. Enter the number of days the injured or ill 
worker was away from work or was on 
job transfer or restricted work activity. 
5. Identify whether the case is an injury or 
illness. If the case is an injury, check the 
injury category. If the case is an illness, 
check the appropriate illness category. 
The Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses 
(Form 300) is used to classify work-related 
injuries and illnesses and to note the extent and 
severity of each case. When an incident occurs, 
use the Log to record specific details about what 
happened and how it happened. The Summary — 
a separate form (Form 300A) — shows the totals 
for the year in each category. At the end of the 
year, post the Summary in a visible location so 
that your employees are aware of the injuries and 
illnesses occurring in their workplace. 
Employers must keep a Log for each 
establishment or site. If you have more than one 
establishment, you must keep a separate Log and 
Summary for each physical location that is 
expected to be in operation for one year or 
longer. 
Note that your employees have the right to 
review your injury and illness records. For more 
information, see 29 Code of Federal Regulations 
Part 1904.35, Employee Involvement. 
Cases listed on the Log of Work-Related 
Injuries and Illnesses are not necessarily eligible 
for workers’ compensation or other insurance 
benefits. Listing a case on the Log does not mean 
that the employer or worker was at fault or that 
an OSHA standard was violated. 
When is an injury or illness considered 
work-related? 
An injury or illness is considered work-
related if an event or exposure in the work 
environment caused or contributed to the 
condition or significantly aggravated a 
preexisting condition. Work-relatedness is 
presumed for injuries and illnesses resulting 
from events or exposures occurring in the 
workplace, unless an exception specifically 
applies. See 29 CFR Part 1904.5(b)(2) for the 
exceptions. The work environment includes the 
establishment and other locations where one or 
more employees are working or are present as a 
condition of their employment. See 29 CFR Part 
1904.5(b)(1). 
Which work-related injuries and 
illnesses should you record? 
Record those work-related injuries and illnesses 
that result in: 
▼death, 
▼loss of consci ousness, 
▼days a way from work, 
▼restricted work activity or job transfer, or 
▼medical treatment beyond first aid. You 
must a
lso record work-related injuries 
and illnesses that are significant (as defined 
below) or meet any of the additional criteria 
listed below. 
You must record any significant work- 
related injury or illness that is diagnosed by a 
physician or other licensed health care 
professional. You must record any work-related 
case involving cancer, chronic irreversible 
d
isease, a fractured or cracked bone, or a 
punctured eardrum. See 29 CFR 1904.7. 
What are the additional criteria? 
You must record the following conditions when 
they are work-related: 
▼ any needlestick injury or cut from a sharp 
object that is contaminated with another 
person’s blood or other potentially infectious 
material; 
▼ any case requiring an employee to be 
medically removed under the requirements 
of an OSHA health standard; 
▼ tuberculosis infection as evidenced by a 
positive skin test or diagnosis by a physician 
or other licensed health care professional 
after exposure to a known case of active 
tuberculosis; 
▼ an employee's hearing test (audiogram) 
reveals 1) that the employee has experienced 
a Standard Threshold Shift (STS) in hearing 
in one or both ears (averaged at 2000, 3000, 
and 4000 Hz) and 2) the employee's total 
hearing level is 25 decibels (dB) or more 
above audiometric zero (also averaged at 
2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz) in the same ear(s) 
as the STS. 
What is medical treatment? 
Medical treatment includes managing and caring 
for a patient for the purpose of combating 
disease or disorder. The following are not 
considered medical treatments and are NOT 
recordable: 
▼ visits to a doctor or health care professional 
solely for observation or counseling; 
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 

--- page 2 ---
  
  
 
      
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
   
 
    
     
  
       
 
      
  
 
  
 
     
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
 
 
    
    
  
 
    
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
       
  
  
 
       
      
      
  
      
       
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
▼ diagnostic procedures, including administering 
prescription medications that are used solely 
for diagnostic purposes; and 
▼ any procedure that can be labeled first aid. (See 
below for more information about first aid.) 
What is first aid? 
If the incident required only the following types of 
treatment, consider it first aid. Do NOT record the 
case if it involves only: 
▼ using non-prescription medications at non- 
prescription strength; 
▼ administering tetanus immunizations; 
▼ cleaning, flushing,  or soaking wounds on the 
skin surface; 
▼ using wound coverings, such as bandages, 
BandAids™, gauze pads, etc., or using 
SteriStrips™ or butterfly bandages; 
▼ using hot or cold therapy; 
▼ using any totally non-rigid means of support, 
such as elastic bandages, wraps, non-rigid back 
belts, etc.; 
▼ using temporary immobilization devices while 
transporting an accident victim (splints, slings, 
neck collars, or back boards); 
▼ drilling a fingernail  or toenail to relieve 
pressure,or draining fluidsfrom blisters; 
▼ using eye patches; 
▼ using simple irrigation or a cotton swab to 
remove foreign bodies not embedded in or 
adhered to the eye; 
▼ using irrigation, tweezers, cotton swab or other 
simple means to remove splinters or foreign 
material from areas other than the eye; 
▼ using finger guards; 
▼ using massages; 
▼ drinking fluids to relieve heat stress. 
How do you decide if the case 
involved restricted work? 
Restricted work activity occurs when, as the result 
of a work-related injury or illness, an employer or 
health care professional keeps, or recommends 
keeping, an employee from doing the routine 
functions of his or her job or from working the 
full workday that the employee would have been 
scheduled to work before the injury or illness 
occurred. 
How do you c ount th e number of 
day s of restricted work activity or 
the number of days away from work? 
Count the number of calendar days the employee 
was on restricted work activity or was away from 
work as a result of the recordable injury or illness. 
Do not count the day on which the injury or 
illness occurred in this number. Begin counting 
days from the day after the incident occurs. If a 
single injury or illness involved both days away 
from work and days of restricted work activity, 
enter the total number of days for each. You may 
stop counting days of restricted work activity or 
days away from work once the total of either or 
the combination of both reaches 180 days. 
Under what circumstances should 
you NOT enter the employee’s name on 
the OSHA Form 300? 
You must consider the following types of injuries 
or illnesses to be privacy concern cases: 
▼ an injury or illness to an intimate body part or to 
the reproductive system, 
▼ an i njury o r illness resulting f rom a sexual 
assault, 
▼ a mental illness, 
▼ a case of HIV i nfection, hepatitis, or 
tuberculosis, 
▼ a needlestick injury or cut from a sharp object 
that is contaminated with blood or other 
potentially infectious material (see 29 CFR Part 
1904.8 for definition), and 
▼ other illnesses, if the employee independently 
and vo
luntarily requests that his or her name not 
be entered on the log. 
You must not enter the employee’s name on the 
OSHA 300 Log for these cases. Instead, enter 
“privacy case” in the space normally used for the 
employee’s name. You must keep a separate, 
confidential list of the case numbers and employee 
names for the establishment’s privacy concern 
cases so that you can update the cases and provide 
information to the government if asked to do so. 
If you have a reasonable basis to believe that 
information describing the privacy concern case 
may be personally identifiable even though the 
employee’s name has been omitted, you may use 
discretion in describing the injury or illness on 
both the OSHA 300 and 301 forms. You must 
enter enough information to identify the cause of 
the incident and the general severity of the 
injury or illness, but you do not need to include 
details of an intimate or private nature. 
What if the outcome changes after you 
record the case? 
If the outcome or extent of an injury or illness 
changes after you have recorded the case, 
simply draw a line through the original entry or, 
if you wish, delete or white-out the original 
entry. Then write the new entry where it 
belongs. Remember, you need to record the 
most serious outcome for each case. 
Classifying injuries 
An injury is any wound or damage to the body 
resulting from an event in the work 
environment. 
Examples: Cut, puncture, laceration, 
abrasion, fracture, bruise, contusion, chipped 
tooth, amputation, insect bite, electrocution, or 
a thermal, chemical, electrical, or radiation 
burn. Sprain and strain injuries to muscles, 
joints, and connective tissues are classified as 
injuries when they result from a slip, trip, fall or 
other similar accidents. 
--- page 3 ---
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
     
 
     
  
     
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
Classifying illnesses 
Skin diseases or disorders 
Skin diseases or disorders are illnesses involving 
the worker’s skin that are caused by work 
exposure to chemicals, plants, or other 
substances. 
Examples: Contact dermatitis, eczema, or 
rash caused by primary irritants and sensitizers 
or poisonous plants; oil acne; friction blisters; 
chrome ulcers; inflammation of the skin. 
Respiratory conditions 
Respiratory conditions are illnesses associated 
with breathing hazardous biological agents, 
chemicals, dust, gases, vapors, or fumes at work. 
Examples: Silicosis, asbestosis, pneumonitis, 
pharyngitis, rhinitis or acute congestion; 
farmer’s lung, beryllium disease, tuberculosis, 
occupational asthma, reactive airways 
dysfunction syndrome (RADS), chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis, toxic inhalation 
injury, such as metal fume fever, chronic 
obstructive bronchitis, and other 
pneumoconioses. 
Poisoning 
Poisoning includes disorders evidenced by 
abnormal concentrations of toxic substances in 
blood, other tissues, other bodily fluids, or the 
breath that are caused by the ingestion or 
absorption of toxic substances into the body. 
Examples: Poisoning by lead, mercury, 
cadmium, arsenic, or other metals; poisoning by 
carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide, or other 
gases; poisoning by benzene, benzol, carbon 
tetrachloride, or other organic solvents; 
poisoning by insecticide sprays, such as 
parathion or lead arsenate; poisoning by other 
chemicals, such as formaldehyde. 
Hearing Loss 
Noise-induced hearing loss is defined for 
recordkeeping purposes as a change in hearing 
threshold relative to the baseline audiogram of an 
average of 10 dB or more in either ear at 2000, 
3000, and 4000 hertz, and the employee’s total 
hearing level is 25 decibels (dB) or more above 
audiometric zero (also averaged at 2000, 3000, 
and 4000 hertz) in the same ear(s). 
All other illnesses 
All other occupational illnesses. 
Examples: Heatstroke, sunstroke, heat 
exhaustion, heat stress and other effects of 
environmental heat; freezing, frostbite, and other 
effects of exposure to low temperatures; 
decompression sickness; effects of ionizing 
radiation (isotopes, x-rays, radium); effects of 
nonionizing radiation (welding flash, ultra-violet 
rays, lasers); anthrax; bloodborne pathogenic 
diseases, such as AIDS, HIV, hepatitis B or 
hepatitis C; brucellosis; malignant or benign 
tumors; histoplasmosis; coccidioidomycosis. 
When must you post the Summary? 
You must post the Summary only — not the 
Log — by February 1 of the year following the 
year covered by the form and keep it posted 
until April 30 of that year. 
How long must you keep the Log and 
Summary on file? 
You must keep the Log and Summary for 5 years 
following the year to which they pertain. 
Do you have to send these forms to 
OSHA at the end of the year? 
Many employers are required to electronically 
submit information from their OSHA Forms to 
OSHA. To see if your establishment is required 
to submit the information, visit https:// 
www.osha.gov/injuryreporting/index.html. 
How can we help you? 
If you have a question about how to 
fill out the Log
, 
▼ visit us online at www.osha.gov or 
▼ call your local OSHA office . 
--- page 4 ---
      
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
     
          
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
      
  
    
 
  
  
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
How to Fill Out the Log 
The Log of Work-Related Injuries and 
Illnesses is used to classify work-related 
injuries and illnesses and to note the 
extent and severity of each case. When an 
incident occurs, use the Log to record 
specific details about what happened and 
how it happened. 
If your company has more than one 
establishment or site, you must keep 
separate records for each physical location 
that is expected to remain in operation for 
one year or longer. 
If you need additional copies of the 
Log, you may photocopy the printout or 
insert additional form pages in the PDF, 
and then use as many as you need. 
The Summary — a separate form — 
shows the work-related injury and illness 
totals for the year in each category. At the 
end of the year, count the number of 
incidents in each category and transfer the 
totals from the Log to the Summary. Then 
post the Summary in a visible location so 
that your employees are aware of injuries 
and illnesses occurring in their workplace. 
You don’t post the Log. You post 
only the Summary at the end of the year. 
Note: Because the forms in this recordkeeping package are “fillable/ 
writable” PDF documents, you can type into the input form fields and 
then save your inputs using the free Adobe PDF Reader . In addition, 
the forms are programmed to auto-calculate as appropriate. 
Be as specific as possible. You can 
use two lines if you need more 
room. 
Revise the log if the injury or illness 
progresses and the outcome is more serious 
than you originally recorded for the case. 
Cross out, erase, or white -out the original 
entry if hard copy. (If using the PDF's fillable form 
feature, simply change your selections. You can 
also clear the entire case entry from the log using 
the Reset button.) 
Choose ONLY ONE of these 
categories. Classify the case by 
recording the most 
serious outcome of the case, 
with column G (Death) being 
the most serious and column 
J (Other recordable cases) 
being the least serious. 
Note whether the 
case involves an 
injury or an illness. 
--- page 5 ---
 
  
  
 
      
       
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
     
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
OSHA’s Form 300 (Rev. 04/2004) 
Log of Work-Related 
Injuries and Illnesses 
Note: You can type input into this form and save it. 
Because the forms in this recordkeeping package are “fillable/writable”
PDF documents, you can type into the input form fields and 
then save your inputs using the free Adobe PDF Reader. In addition, 
the forms are programmed to auto-calculate as appropriate. 
Attention: This form contains information relating to 
employee health and must be used in a manner that 
protects the confidentiality of employees to the extent 
possible while the information is being used for 
occupational safety and health purposes. 
Year 20 
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
Please Record: Reminders: Form approved OMB no. 1218-0176 
• Information about every work-related death and about every work-related injury or illness that involves loss of • Complete an Injury and Illness Incident Report (OSHA Form 301) or equivalent 
consciousness, restricted work activity or job transfer, days away from work, or medical treatment beyond first aid. form for each injury or illness recorded on this form. If you're not sure whether a Establishment name 
• Significant work-related injuries and illnesses that are diagnosed by a physician or licensed health care professional. 
• Work-related injuries and illnesses that meet any of the specific recording criteria listed in 29 CFR Part 1904.8 
through 1904.12. 
case is recordable, call your local OSHA office for help. 
• Feel free to use two lines for a single case if you need to. 
• Complete the 5 steps for each case. City State 
Step 4. Step 5. 
Enter the number of 
days the injured or ill Select one column: 
worker wa
s: 
Step 2. Describe the case Step 1. Identify the person 
(A) (B) (C) (D) (E) (F) 
Step 3. Classify the case 
SELECT ONLY ONE circle based on the 
most serious outcome: 
Case Employee’s name Job title Date of injury Where the event occurred Describe injury or illness, parts of body 
or onset of affected, and object/substance that (e.g., L
oading dock north end) (e.g., Welder) no. 
illness direct
ly injured or made person ill (e.g., Remained at Work Illness 
(e.g., 2/10) Second degree burns on right forearm from (M) acetylene to
rch) Days away Job transfer Other record- Away On job 
Death from work or restriction able cases from transfer or 
work restriction 
Skin disorder 
Respiratory 
condition 
Poisoning 
Hearing loss 
All other 
illnesses 
(G) (H) (I) (J) 
(K) (L) 
Injury 
(1) (2) (3) (4)  (5) (6) 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
Reset 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
/ 
days days month / day 
Page totals 
▼
Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 14 minutes per response, including time to review the 
instructions, search and gather the data needed, and complete and review the collection of information. Persons are not required to 
respond to the collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. If you have any comments about these 
estimates or any other aspects of this data collection, contact: US Department of Labor, OSHA Office of Statistical Analysis, Room 
N-3644, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20210. Do not send the completed forms to this office. 
Add a Form Page 
Injury 
Skin disorder 
Respiratory 
condition 
Poisoning 
Hearing loss 
All other 
illnesses 
Be sure to transfer these totals to the Summary page (Form 300A) before you post it. 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 
--- page 6 ---
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
     
     
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
      
      
      
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
OSHA’s Form 300A (Rev. 04/2004) 
Summary of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses 
Note: You can type input into this form and save it. 
Because the forms in this recordkeeping package are “fillable/writable”
PDF documents, you can type into the input form fields and 
then save your inputs using the free Adobe PDF Reader. 
Year 20 
U.S. Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
Form approved OMB no. 1218-0176 
All establishments covered by Part 1904 must complete this Summary page, even if no work-related injuries or illnesses occurred during the year. 
Remember to review the Log to verify that the entries are complete and accurate before completing this summary. 
Using the Log, count the individual entries you made for each category. Then write the totals below, making sure you've added the entries from 
every page of the Log. If you had no cases, write “0.” 
Employees, former employees, and their representatives have the right to review the OSHA Form 300 in its entirety. They also have limited access 
to the OSHA Form 301 or its equivalent. See 29 CFR Part 1904.35, in OSHA’s recordkeeping rule, for further details on the access provisions for 
these forms. 
Number of Cases 
Total number of Total number of Total number of cases Total number of 
d
eaths cases with days with job transfer or other recordable 
a
way from work restriction cases 
(G) (H) (I ) (J) 
Number of Days 
Total number of days Total number of days of 
away from work job transfer or restriction 
(K) (L) 
Injury and Illness Types 
Total number of . . . 
(M) 
(1) Injuries (4) Poisonings 
(2) Skin disorders (5) Hearing loss 
(3) Respiratory conditions (6) All other illnesses 
Post this Summary page from February 1 to April 30 of the year following the year covered by the form. 
Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 58 minutes per response, including time to review the instructions, search and gather the data needed, and 
complete and review the collection of information. Persons are not required to respond to the collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. If you have any 
comments about these estimates or any other aspects of this data collection, contact: US Department of Labor, OSHA Office of Statistical Analysis, Room N-3644, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, 
Washington, DC 20210. Do not send the completed forms to this office. 
Total hours worked by all employees last year 
Sign here 
Knowingly falsifying this document may result in a fine. 
I certify that I have examined this document and that to the best of 
my knowledge the entries are true, accurate, and complete. 
Title Company executive 
Phone Date 
Annual average number of employees 
Employment information (If you don't have these figures, see the 
Worksheet on the next page to estimate.) 
North American Industrial Classification (NAICS), if known (e.g., 336212) 
Industry description (e.g., Manufacture of motor truck trailers) 
Zip 
Establishment information 
Your establishment name 
Street 
City State 
--- page 7 ---
OSHA’s Form 301 (Rev. 04/2004) 
Note: You can type input into this form and save it. Attention: This form contains information relating to Because the forms in this recordkeeping package are “fillable/writable” employee health and must be used in a manner that Injury and Illness PDF documents, you can type into the input form fields and protects the confidentiality of employees to the extent 
then save your inputs using the free Adobe PDF Reader. In addition, U.S. Department of Labor possible while the information is being used for the forms are programmed to auto-calculate as appropriate. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Incident Report occupational safety and health purposes. 
This Injury and Illness Incident Report is one of the 
first forms you must fill out when a recordable 
work-related injury or illness has occurred. Together 
with the Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses 
and the accompanying Summary, these forms help 
the employer and OSHA develop a picture of the 
extent and severity of work-related incidents. 
Within 7 calendar days after you receive 
information that a recordable work-related injury or 
illness has occurred, you must fill out this form or an 
equivalent. Some state workers’ compensation, 
insurance, or other reports may be acceptable 
substitutes. To be considered an equivalent form, any 
substitute must contain all the information asked for 
on this form. 
According to Public Law 91-596 and 29 CFR 
1904, OSHA’s recordkeeping rule, you must keep 
this form on file for 5 years following the year to 
which it pertains. 
If you need additional copies of this form, you 
may photocopy the printout or insert additional form 
pages in the PDF, and then use as many as you need. 
Month Day Year 
Date 
Completed by 
Title 
Phone 
  
   
  
   
   
     
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
    
       
 
 
   
   
  
    
  
   
        
  
  
  
     
            
         
          
          
         
   
                   
        
         
               
 
 
 
       
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Information about the employee 
1) Full name 
2) Street 
City State ZIP 
3) Date of birth 
4) Date hired 
Month Day Year 
5) Male 
Month 
Female 
Day Y ear 
Information about the physician or other health care 
professional 
6) Name of physician or other health care professional 
7) If treatment was given away from the worksite, where was it given? 
F
acility 
S
treet 
City State ̀ZI
P 
8) Was employee treated in an emergency room? 
Yes 
No 
9) Was employee hospitalized overnight as an in-patient? 
Yes 
No 
Form approved OMB no. 1218-0176 
Information about the case 
10) Case number from the Log (Transfer the case number from the Log after you record the case.) 
11) Date of injury or illness 
Month Day Year 
12) Time employee began work (HH:MM) 
 AM 
 PM 
13) Time of event (HH:MM) 
 AM 
 PM 
 Check if time cannot be determined 
* Re fields 14 to 17: Please do not include any personally identifiable information (PII) pertaining to 
worker(s) involved in the incident (e.g., no names, phone numbers, or Social Security numbers). 
14)* What was the employee doing just before the incident occurred? Describe the activity, as well as the 
tools, equipment, or material the employee was using. Be specific. Examples: “climbing a ladder while 
carrying roofing materials”; “spraying chlorine from hand sprayer”; “daily computer key-entry.” 
15)* What Happened? Tell us how the injury occurred. Examples: “When ladder slipped on wet floor, worker fell 
20 feet”; “Worker was sprayed with chlorine when gasket broke during replacement”; “Worker developed 
soreness in wrist over time.” 
16)* What was the injury or illness? Tell us the part of the body that was affected and how it was affected. 
Examples: “strained back”; “chemical burn, hand”; “carpal tunnel syndrome.” 
17)* What object or substance directly harmed the employee? Examples: “concrete floor”; “chlorine”; 
“radial arm saw.” If this question does not apply to the incident, leave it blank. 
18) If the employee died, when did death occur? Date of death 
Month Day Year 
Add a Form Page Reset 
Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 22 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Persons are not required to respond to the collection of information unless it displays a 
current valid OMB control number. If you have any comments about this estimate or any other aspects of this data collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, contact: US Department of Labor, OSHA Office of Statistical Analysis, Room N-3644, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20210. Do not send the completed forms to this office. 