
29 CFR Part 1904 - Recording and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illnesses
==============================================================================


§ 1904.4 Recording criteria.
----------------------------

(a) Basic requirement. Each employer required by this part to keep records of fatalities,
injuries, and illnesses must record each fatality, injury and illness that:

(1) Is work-related; and

(2) Is a new case; and

(3) Meets one or more of the general recording criteria of § 1904.7 or the application to
specific cases of §§ 1904.8 through 1904.12.

(b) Implementation—(1) What sections of this rule describe recording criteria for recording
work-related injuries and illnesses? The table below indicates which sections of the rule
address each topic.

(i) Determination of work-relatedness. See § 1904.5.

(ii) Determination of a new case. See § 1904.6.

(iii) General recording criteria. See § 1904.7.

(iv) Additional criteria. (Needlestick and sharps injury cases, tuberculosis cases, hearing
loss cases, medical removal cases, and musculoskeletal disorder cases). See §§ 1904.8
through 1904.12.

(2) How do I decide whether a particular injury or illness is recordable? The decision tree
for recording work-related injuries and illnesses below shows the steps involved in making
this determination.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


§ 1904.5 Determination of work-relatedness.
-------------------------------------------

(a) Basic requirement. You must consider an injury or illness to be work-related if an event
or exposure in the work environment either caused or contributed to the resulting condition
or significantly aggravated a pre-existing injury or illness. Work-relatedness is presumed
for injuries and illnesses resulting from events or exposures occurring in the work
environment, unless an exception in § 1904.5(b)(2) specifically applies.

(b) Implementation. (1) What is the “work environment”? OSHA defines the work environment as
“the establishment and other locations where one or more employees are working or are
present as a condition of their employment. The work environment includes not only physical
locations, but also the equipment or materials used by the employee during the course of his
or her work.”

(2) Are there situations where an injury or illness occurs in the work environment and is
not considered work-related? Yes, an injury or illness occurring in the work environment
that falls under one of the following exceptions is not work-related, and therefore is not
recordable.

1904.5  You are not required to record injuries and illnesses if . . .
(b)(2)

(i)     At the time of the injury or illness, the employee was present in the work environment as a member
        of the general public rather than as an employee.

(ii)    The injury or illness involves signs or symptoms that surface at work but result solely from a non-
        work-related event or exposure that occurs outside the work environment.

(iii)   The injury or illness results solely from voluntary participation in a wellness program or in a
        medical, fitness, or recreational activity such as blood donation, physical examination, flu shot,
        exercise class, racquetball, or baseball.

(iv)    The injury or illness is solely the result of an employee eating, drinking, or preparing food or
        drink for personal consumption (whether bought on the employer's premises or brought in). For
        example, if the employee is injured by choking on a sandwich while in the employer's establishment,
        the case would not be considered work-related.

        Note: If the employee is made ill by ingesting food contaminated by workplace contaminants (such as
        lead), or gets food poisoning from food supplied by the employer, the case would be considered work-
        related.

(v)     The injury or illness is solely the result of an employee doing personal tasks (unrelated to their
        employment) at the establishment outside of the employee's assigned working hours.

(vi)    The injury or illness is solely the result of personal grooming, self medication for a non-work-
        related condition, or is intentionally self-inflicted.

(vii)   The injury or illness is caused by a motor vehicle accident and occurs on a company parking lot or
        company access road while the employee is commuting to or from work.

(viii)  The illness is the common cold or flu (Note: contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, brucellosis,
        hepatitis A, or plague are considered work-related if the employee is infected at work).

(ix)    The illness is a mental illness. Mental illness will not be considered work-related unless the
        employee voluntarily provides the employer with an opinion from a physician or other licensed health
        care professional with appropriate training and experience (psychiatrist, psychologist, psychiatric
        nurse practitioner, etc.) stating that the employee has a mental illness that is work-related.


(3) How do I handle a case if it is not obvious whether the precipitating event or exposure
occurred in the work environment or occurred away from work? In these situations, you must
evaluate the employee's work duties and environment to decide whether or not one or more
events or exposures in the work environment either caused or contributed to the resulting
condition or significantly aggravated a pre-existing condition.

(4) How do I know if an event or exposure in the work environment “significantly aggravated”
a preexisting injury or illness? A preexisting injury or illness has been significantly
aggravated, for purposes of OSHA injury and illness recordkeeping, when an event or exposure
in the work environment results in any of the following:

(i) Death, provided that the preexisting injury or illness would likely not have resulted in
death but for the occupational event or exposure.

(ii) Loss of consciousness, provided that the preexisting injury or illness would likely not
have resulted in loss of consciousness but for the occupational event or exposure.

(iii) One or more days away from work, or days of restricted work, or days of job transfer
that otherwise would not have occurred but for the occupational event or exposure.

(iv) Medical treatment in a case where no medical treatment was needed for the injury or
illness before the workplace event or exposure, or a change in medical treatment was
necessitated by the workplace event or exposure.

(5) Which injuries and illnesses are considered pre-existing conditions? An injury or
illness is a preexisting condition if it resulted solely from a non-work-related event or
exposure that occured outside the work environment.

(6) How do I decide whether an injury or illness is work-related if the employee is on
travel status at the time the injury or illness occurs? Injuries and illnesses that occur
while an employee is on travel status are work-related if, at the time of the injury or
illness, the employee was engaged in work activities “in the interest of the employer.”
Examples of such activities include travel to and from customer contacts, conducting job
tasks, and entertaining or being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business
(work-related entertainment includes only entertainment activities being engaged in at the
direction of the employer).

Injuries or illnesses that occur when the employee is on travel status do not have to be
recorded if they meet one of the exceptions listed below.

1904.5  If the      You may use the following to determine if an injury or illness is work-related
(b)(6)  employee
        has . . .

(i)     checked     When a traveling employee checks into a hotel, motel, or into an other temporary
        into a      residence, he or she establishes a “home away from home.” You must evaluate the
        hotel or    employee's activities after he or she checks into the hotel, motel, or other temporary
        motel for   residence for their work-relatedness in the same manner as you evaluate the activities
        one or      of a non-traveling employee. When the employee checks into the temporary residence, he
        more days   or she is considered to have left the work environment. When the employee begins work
                    each day, he or she re-enters the work environment. If the employee has established a
                    “home away from home” and is reporting to a fixed worksite each day, you also do not
                    consider injuries or illnesses work-related if they occur while the employee is
                    commuting between the temporary residence and the job location.

(ii)    taken a     Injuries or illnesses are not considered work-related if they occur while the employee
        detour for  is on a personal detour from a reasonably direct route of travel (e.g., has taken a side
        personal    trip for personal reasons).
        reasons


(7) How do I decide if a case is work-related when the employee is working at home? Injuries
and illnesses that occur while an employee is working at home, including work in a home
office, will be considered work-related if the injury or illness occurs while the employee
is performing work for pay or compensation in the home, and the injury or illness is
directly related to the performance of work rather than to the general home environment or
setting. For example, if an employee drops a box of work documents and injures his or her
foot, the case is considered work-related. If an employee's fingernail is punctured by a
needle from a sewing machine used to perform garment work at home, becomes infected and
requires medical treatment, the injury is considered work-related. If an employee is injured
because he or she trips on the family dog while rushing to answer a work phone call, the
case is not considered work-related. If an employee working at home is electrocuted because
of faulty home wiring, the injury is not considered work-related.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


§ 1904.6 Determination of new cases.
------------------------------------

(a) Basic requirement. You must consider an injury or illness to be a “new case” if:

(1) The employee has not previously experienced a recorded injury or illness of the same
type that affects the same part of the body, or

(2) The employee previously experienced a recorded injury or illness of the same type that
affected the same part of the body but had recovered completely (all signs and symptoms had
disappeared) from the previous injury or illness and an event or exposure in the work
environment caused the signs or symptoms to reappear.

(b) Implementation—(1) When an employee experiences the signs or symptoms of a chronic work-
related illness, do I need to consider each recurrence of signs or symptoms to be a new
case? No, for occupational illnesses where the signs or symptoms may recur or continue in
the absence of an exposure in the workplace, the case must only be recorded once. Examples
may include occupational cancer, asbestosis, byssinosis and silicosis.

(2) When an employee experiences the signs or symptoms of an injury or illness as a result
of an event or exposure in the workplace, such as an episode of occupational asthma, must I
treat the episode as a new case? Yes, because the episode or recurrence was caused by an
event or exposure in the workplace, the incident must be treated as a new case.

(3) May I rely on a physician or other licensed health care professional to determine
whether a case is a new case or a recurrence of an old case? You are not required to seek
the advice of a physician or other licensed health care professional. However, if you do
seek such advice, you must follow the physician or other licensed health care professional's
recommendation about whether the case is a new case or a recurrence. If you receive
recommendations from two or more physicians or other licensed health care professionals, you
must make a decision as to which recommendation is the most authoritative (best documented,
best reasoned, or most authoritative), and record the case based upon that recommendation.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


§ 1904.7 General recording criteria.
------------------------------------

(a) Basic requirement. You must consider an injury or illness to meet the general recording
criteria, and therefore to be recordable, if it results in any of the following: death, days
away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first
aid, or loss of consciousness. You must also consider a case to meet the general recording
criteria if it involves a significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician or other
licensed health care professional, even if it does not result in death, days away from work,
restricted work or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of
consciousness.

(b) Implementation—(1) How do I decide if a case meets one or more of the general recording
criteria? A work-related injury or illness must be recorded if it results in one or more of
the following:

(i) Death. See § 1904.7(b)(2).

(ii) Days away from work. See § 1904.7(b)(3).

(iii) Restricted work or transfer to another job. See § 1904.7(b)(4).

(iv) Medical treatment beyond first aid. See § 1904.7(b)(5).

(v) Loss of consciousness. See § 1904.7(b)(6).

(vi) A significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care
professional. See § 1904.7(b)(7).

(2) How do I record a work-related injury or illness that results in the employee's death?
You must record an injury or illness that results in death by entering a check mark on the
OSHA 300 Log in the space for cases resulting in death. You must also report any work-
related fatality to OSHA within eight (8) hours, as required by § 1904.39.

(3) How do I record a work-related injury or illness that results in days away from work?
When an injury or illness involves one or more days away from work, you must record the
injury or illness on the OSHA 300 Log with a check mark in the space for cases involving
days away and an entry of the number of calendar days away from work in the number of days
column. If the employee is out for an extended period of time, you must enter an estimate of
the days that the employee will be away, and update the day count when the actual number of
days is known.

(i) Do I count the day on which the injury occurred or the illness began? No, you begin
counting days away on the day after the injury occurred or the illness began.

(ii) How do I record an injury or illness when a physician or other licensed health care
professional recommends that the worker stay at home but the employee comes to work anyway?
You must record these injuries and illnesses on the OSHA 300 Log using the check box for
cases with days away from work and enter the number of calendar days away recommended by the
physician or other licensed health care professional. If a physician or other licensed
health care professional recommends days away, you should encourage your employee to follow
that recommendation. However, the days away must be recorded whether the injured or ill
employee follows the physician or licensed health care professional's recommendation or not.
If you receive recommendations from two or more physicians or other licensed health care
professionals, you may make a decision as to which recommendation is the most authoritative,
and record the case based upon that recommendation.

(iii) How do I handle a case when a physician or other licensed health care professional
recommends that the worker return to work but the employee stays at home anyway? In this
situation, you must end the count of days away from work on the date the physician or other
licensed health care professional recommends that the employee return to work.

(iv) How do I count weekends, holidays, or other days the employee would not have worked
anyway? You must count the number of calendar days the employee was unable to work as a
result of the injury or illness, regardless of whether or not the employee was scheduled to
work on those day(s). Weekend days, holidays, vacation days or other days off are included
in the total number of days recorded if the employee would not have been able to work on
those days because of a work-related injury or illness.

(v) How do I record a case in which a worker is injured or becomes ill on a Friday and
reports to work on a Monday, and was not scheduled to work on the weekend? You need to
record this case only if you receive information from a physician or other licensed health
care professional indicating that the employee should not have worked, or should have
performed only restricted work, during the weekend. If so, you must record the injury or
illness as a case with days away from work or restricted work, and enter the day counts, as
appropriate.

(vi) How do I record a case in which a worker is injured or becomes ill on the day before
scheduled time off such as a holiday, a planned vacation, or a temporary plant closing? You
need to record a case of this type only if you receive information from a physician or other
licensed health care professional indicating that the employee should not have worked, or
should have performed only restricted work, during the scheduled time off. If so, you must
record the injury or illness as a case with days away from work or restricted work, and
enter the day counts, as appropriate.

(vii) Is there a limit to the number of days away from work I must count? Yes, you may “cap”
the total days away at 180 calendar days. You are not required to keep track of the number
of calendar days away from work if the injury or illness resulted in more than 180 calendar
days away from work and/or days of job transfer or restriction. In such a case, entering 180
in the total days away column will be considered adequate.

(viii) May I stop counting days if an employee who is away from work because of an injury or
illness retires or leaves my company? Yes, if the employee leaves your company for some
reason unrelated to the injury or illness, such as retirement, a plant closing, or to take
another job, you may stop counting days away from work or days of restriction/job transfer.
If the employee leaves your company because of the injury or illness, you must estimate the
total number of days away or days of restriction/job transfer and enter the day count on the
300 Log.

(ix) If a case occurs in one year but results in days away during the next calendar year, do
I record the case in both years? No, you only record the injury or illness once. You must
enter the number of calendar days away for the injury or illness on the OSHA 300 Log for the
year in which the injury or illness occurred. If the employee is still away from work
because of the injury or illness when you prepare the annual summary, estimate the total
number of calendar days you expect the employee to be away from work, use this number to
calculate the total for the annual summary, and then update the initial log entry later when
the day count is known or reaches the 180-day cap.

(4) How do I record a work-related injury or illness that results in restricted work or job
transfer? When an injury or illness involves restricted work or job transfer but does not
involve death or days away from work, you must record the injury or illness on the OSHA 300
Log by placing a check mark in the space for job transfer or restriction and an entry of the
number of restricted or transferred days in the restricted workdays column.

(i) How do I decide if the injury or illness resulted in restricted work? Restricted work
occurs when, as the result of a work-related injury or illness:

(A) You keep the employee from performing one or more of the routine functions of his or her
job, or from working the full workday that he or she would otherwise have been scheduled to
work; or

(B) A physician or other licensed health care professional recommends that the employee not
perform one or more of the routine functions of his or her job, or not work the full workday
that he or she would otherwise have been scheduled to work.

(ii) What is meant by “routine functions”? For recordkeeping purposes, an employee's routine
functions are those work activities the employee regularly performs at least once per week.

(iii) Do I have to record restricted work or job transfer if it applies only to the day on
which the injury occurred or the illness began? No, you do not have to record restricted
work or job transfers if you, or the physician or other licensed health care professional,
impose the restriction or transfer only for the day on which the injury occurred or the
illness began.

(iv) If you or a physician or other licensed health care professional recommends a work
restriction, is the injury or illness automatically recordable as a “restricted work” case?
No, a recommended work restriction is recordable only if it affects one or more of the
employee's routine job functions. To determine whether this is the case, you must evaluate
the restriction in light of the routine functions of the injured or ill employee's job. If
the restriction from you or the physician or other licensed health care professional keeps
the employee from performing one or more of his or her routine job functions, or from
working the full workday the injured or ill employee would otherwise have worked, the
employee's work has been restricted and you must record the case.

(v) How do I record a case where the worker works only for a partial work shift because of a
work-related injury or illness? A partial day of work is recorded as a day of job transfer
or restriction for recordkeeping purposes, except for the day on which the injury occurred
or the illness began.

(vi) If the injured or ill worker produces fewer goods or services than he or she would have
produced prior to the injury or illness but otherwise performs all of the routine functions
of his or her work, is the case considered a restricted work case? No, the case is
considered restricted work only if the worker does not perform all of the routine functions
of his or her job or does not work the full shift that he or she would otherwise have
worked.

(vii) How do I handle vague restrictions from a physician or other licensed health care
professional, such as that the employee engage only in “light duty” or “take it easy for a
week”? If you are not clear about the physician or other licensed health care professional's
recommendation, you may ask that person whether the employee can do all of his or her
routine job functions and work all of his or her normally assigned work shift. If the answer
to both of these questions is “Yes,” then the case does not involve a work restriction and
does not have to be recorded as such. If the answer to one or both of these questions is
“No,” the case involves restricted work and must be recorded as a restricted work case. If
you are unable to obtain this additional information from the physician or other licensed
health care professional who recommended the restriction, record the injury or illness as a
case involving restricted work.

(viii) What do I do if a physician or other licensed health care professional recommends a
job restriction meeting OSHA's definition, but the employee does all of his or her routine
job functions anyway? You must record the injury or illness on the OSHA 300 Log as a
restricted work case. If a physician or other licensed health care professional recommends a
job restriction, you should ensure that the employee complies with that restriction. If you
receive recommendations from two or more physicians or other licensed health care
professionals, you may make a decision as to which recommendation is the most authoritative,
and record the case based upon that recommendation.

(ix) How do I decide if an injury or illness involved a transfer to another job? If you
assign an injured or ill employee to a job other than his or her regular job for part of the
day, the case involves transfer to another job. Note: This does not include the day on which
the injury or illness occurred.

(x) Are transfers to another job recorded in the same way as restricted work cases? Yes,
both job transfer and restricted work cases are recorded in the same box on the OSHA 300
Log. For example, if you assign, or a physician or other licensed health care professional
recommends that you assign, an injured or ill worker to his or her routine job duties for
part of the day and to another job for the rest of the day, the injury or illness involves a
job transfer. You must record an injury or illness that involves a job transfer by placing a
check in the box for job transfer.

(xi) How do I count days of job transfer or restriction? You count days of job transfer or
restriction in the same way you count days away from work, using § 1904.7(b)(3)(i) to
(viii), above. The only difference is that, if you permanently assign the injured or ill
employee to a job that has been modified or permanently changed in a manner that eliminates
the routine functions the employee was restricted from performing, you may stop the day
count when the modification or change is made permanent. You must count at least one day of
restricted work or job transfer for such cases.

(5) How do I record an injury or illness that involves medical treatment beyond first aid?
If a work-related injury or illness results in medical treatment beyond first aid, you must
record it on the OSHA 300 Log. If the injury or illness did not involve death, one or more
days away from work, one or more days of restricted work, or one or more days of job
transfer, you enter a check mark in the box for cases where the employee received medical
treatment but remained at work and was not transferred or restricted.

(i) What is the definition of medical treatment? “Medical treatment” means the management
and care of a patient to combat disease or disorder. For the purposes of part 1904, medical
treatment does not include:

(A) Visits to a physician or other licensed health care professional solely for observation
or counseling;

(B) The conduct of diagnostic procedures, such as x-rays and blood tests, including the
administration of prescription medications used solely for diagnostic purposes (e.g., eye
drops to dilate pupils); or

(C) “First aid” as defined in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) What is “first aid”? For the purposes of part 1904, “first aid” means the following:

(A) Using a non-prescription medication at nonprescription strength (for medications
available in both prescription and non-prescription form, a recommendation by a physician or
other licensed health care professional to use a non-prescription medication at prescription
strength is considered medical treatment for recordkeeping purposes);

(B) Administering tetanus immunizations (other immunizations, such as Hepatitis B vaccine or
rabies vaccine, are considered medical treatment);

(C) Cleaning, flushing or soaking wounds on the surface of the skin;

(D) Using wound coverings such as bandages, Band-Aids TM, gauze pads, etc.; or using
butterfly bandages or Steri-Strips TM (other wound closing devices such as sutures, staples,
etc., are considered medical treatment);

(E) Using hot or cold therapy;

(F) Using any non-rigid means of support, such as elastic bandages, wraps, non-rigid back
belts, etc. (devices with rigid stays or other systems designed to immobilize parts of the
body are considered medical treatment for recordkeeping purposes);

(G) Using temporary immobilization devices while transporting an accident victim (e.g.,
splints, slings, neck collars, back boards, etc.).

(H) Drilling of a fingernail or toenail to relieve pressure, or draining fluid from a
blister;

(I) Using eye patches;

(J) Removing foreign bodies from the eye using only irrigation or a cotton swab;

(K) Removing splinters or foreign material from areas other than the eye by irrigation,
tweezers, cotton swabs or other simple means;

(L) Using finger guards;

(M) Using massages (physical therapy or chiropractic treatment are considered medical
treatment for recordkeeping purposes); or

(N) Drinking fluids for relief of heat stress.

(iii) Are any other procedures included in first aid? No, this is a complete list of all
treatments considered first aid for part 1904 purposes.

(iv) Does the professional status of the person providing the treatment have any effect on
what is considered first aid or medical treatment? No, OSHA considers the treatments listed
in § 1904.7(b)(5)(ii) of this part to be first aid regardless of the professional status of
the person providing the treatment. Even when these treatments are provided by a physician
or other licensed health care professional, they are considered first aid for the purposes
of part 1904. Similarly, OSHA considers treatment beyond first aid to be medical treatment
even when it is provided by someone other than a physician or other licensed health care
professional.

(v) What if a physician or other licensed health care professional recommends medical
treatment but the employee does not follow the recommendation? If a physician or other
licensed health care professional recommends medical treatment, you should encourage the
injured or ill employee to follow that recommendation. However, you must record the case
even if the injured or ill employee does not follow the physician or other licensed health
care professional's recommendation.

(6) Is every work-related injury or illness case involving a loss of consciousness
recordable? Yes, you must record a work-related injury or illness if the worker becomes
unconscious, regardless of the length of time the employee remains unconscious.

(7) What is a “significant” diagnosed injury or illness that is recordable under the general
criteria even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job
transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness? Work-related cases
involving cancer, chronic irreversible disease, a fractured or cracked bone, or a punctured
eardrum must always be recorded under the general criteria at the time of diagnosis by a
physician or other licensed health care professional.

OSHA believes that most significant injuries and illnesses will result in one of the
criteria listed in § 1904.7(a): death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer,
medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness. However, there are some
significant injuries, such as a punctured eardrum or a fractured toe or rib, for which
neither medical treatment nor work restrictions may be recommended. In addition, there are
some significant progressive diseases, such as byssinosis, silicosis, and some types of
cancer, for which medical treatment or work restrictions may not be recommended at the time
of diagnosis but are likely to be recommended as the disease progresses. OSHA believes that
cancer, chronic irreversible diseases, fractured or cracked bones, and punctured eardrums
are generally considered significant injuries and illnesses, and must be recorded at the
initial diagnosis even if medical treatment or work restrictions are not recommended, or are
postponed, in a particular case.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


§ 1904.29 Forms.
----------------

(a) Basic requirement. You must use OSHA 300, 300-A, and 301 forms, or equivalent forms, for
recordable injuries and illnesses. The OSHA 300 form is called the Log of Work-Related
Injuries and Illnesses, the 300-A is the Summary of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses, and
the OSHA 301 form is called the Injury and Illness Incident Report.

(b) Implementation—(1) What do I need to do to complete the OSHA 300 Log? You must enter
information about your business at the top of the OSHA 300 Log, enter a one or two line
description for each recordable injury or illness, and summarize this information on the
OSHA 300-A at the end of the year.

(2) What do I need to do to complete the OSHA 301 Incident Report? You must complete an OSHA
301 Incident Report form, or an equivalent form, for each recordable injury or illness
entered on the OSHA 300 Log.

(3) How quickly must each injury or illness be recorded? You must enter each recordable
injury or illness on the OSHA 300 Log and 301 Incident Report within seven (7) calendar days
of receiving information that a recordable injury or illness has occurred.

(4) What is an equivalent form? An equivalent form is one that has the same information, is
as readable and understandable, and is completed using the same instructions as the OSHA
form it replaces. Many employers use an insurance form instead of the OSHA 301 Incident
Report, or supplement an insurance form by adding any additional information required by
OSHA.

(5) May I keep my records on a computer? Yes, if the computer can produce equivalent forms
when they are needed, as described under §§ 1904.35 and 1904.40, you may keep your records
using the computer system.

(6) Are there situations where I do not put the employee's name on the forms for privacy
reasons? Yes, if you have a “privacy concern case,” you may not enter the employee's name on
the OSHA 300 Log. Instead, enter “privacy case” in the space normally used for the
employee's name. This will protect the privacy of the injured or ill employee when another
employee, a former employee, or an authorized employee representative is provided access to
the OSHA 300 Log under § 1904.35(b)(2). You must keep a separate, confidential list of the
case numbers and employee names for your privacy concern cases so you can update the cases
and provide the information to the government if asked to do so.

(7) How do I determine if an injury or illness is a privacy concern case? You must consider
the following injuries or illnesses to be privacy concern cases:

(i) An injury or illness to an intimate body part or the reproductive system;

(ii) An injury or illness resulting from a sexual assault;

(iii) Mental illnesses;

(iv) HIV infection, hepatitis, or tuberculosis;

(v) Needlestick injuries and cuts from sharp objects that are contaminated with another
person's blood or other potentially infectious material (see § 1904.8 for definitions); and

(vi) Other illnesses, if the employee voluntarily requests that his or her name not be
entered on the log.

(8) May I classify any other types of injuries and illnesses as privacy concern cases? No,
this is a complete list of all injuries and illnesses considered privacy concern cases for
part 1904 purposes.

(9) If I have removed the employee's name, but still believe that the employee may be
identified from the information on the forms, is there anything else that I can do to
further protect the employee's privacy? Yes, if you have a reasonable basis to believe that
information describing the privacy concern case may be personally identifiable even though
the employee's name has been omitted, you may use discretion in describing the injury or
illness on both the OSHA 300 and 301 forms. You must enter enough information to identify
the cause of the incident and the general severity of the injury or illness, but you do not
need to include details of an intimate or private nature. For example, a sexual assault case
could be described as “injury from assault,” or an injury to a reproductive organ could be
described as “lower abdominal injury.”

(10) What must I do to protect employee privacy if I wish to provide access to the OSHA
Forms 300 and 301 to persons other than government representatives, employees, former
employees or authorized representatives? If you decide to voluntarily disclose the Forms to
persons other than government representatives, employees, former employees or authorized
representatives (as required by §§ 1904.35 and 1904.40), you must remove or hide the
employees' names and other personally identifying information, except for the following
cases. You may disclose the Forms with personally identifying information only:

(i) to an auditor or consultant hired by the employer to evaluate the safety and health
program;

(ii) to the extent necessary for processing a claim for workers' compensation or other
insurance benefits; or

(iii) to a public health authority or law enforcement agency for uses and disclosures for
which consent, an authorization, or opportunity to agree or object is not required under
Department of Health and Human Services Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable
Health Information, 45 CFR 164.512.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


§ 1904.39 Reporting fatalities, hospitalizations, amputations, and losses of an eye as a result of work-related incidents to OSHA.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(a) Basic requirement. (1) Within eight (8) hours after the death of any employee as a
result of a work-related incident, you must report the fatality to the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration (OSHA), U.S. Department of Labor.

(2) Within twenty-four (24) hours after the in-patient hospitalization of one or more
employees or an employee's amputation or an employee's loss of an eye, as a result of a
work-related incident, you must report the in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss
of an eye to OSHA.

(3) You must report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye
using one of the following methods:

(i) By telephone or in person to the OSHA Area Office that is nearest to the site of the
incident.

(ii) By telephone to the OSHA toll-free central telephone number, 1-800-321-OSHA
(1-800-321-6742).

(iii) By electronic submission using the reporting application located on OSHA's public Web
site at www.osha.gov.

(b) Implementation—(1) If the Area Office is closed, may I report the fatality, in-patient
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye by leaving a message on OSHA's answering
machine, faxing the Area Office, or sending an email? No, if the Area Office is closed, you
must report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye using
either the 800 number or the reporting application located on OSHA's public Web site at
www.osha.gov.

(2) What information do I need to give to OSHA about the in-patient hospitalization,
amputation, or loss of an eye? You must give OSHA the following information for each
fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye:

(i) The establishment name;

(ii) The location of the work-related incident;

(iii) The time of the work-related incident;

(iv) The type of reportable event (i.e., fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation,
or loss of an eye);

(v) The number of employees who suffered a fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation,
or loss of an eye;

(vi) The names of the employees who suffered a fatality, in-patient hospitalization,
amputation, or loss of an eye;

(vii) Your contact person and his or her phone number; and

(viii) A brief description of the work-related incident.

(3) Do I have to report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an
eye if it resulted from a motor vehicle accident on a public street or highway? If the motor
vehicle accident occurred in a construction work zone, you must report the fatality, in-
patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye. If the motor vehicle accident
occurred on a public street or highway, but not in a construction work zone, you do not have
to report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye to OSHA.
However, the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye must be
recorded on your OSHA injury and illness records, if you are required to keep such records.

(4) Do I have to report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an
eye if it occurred on a commercial or public transportation system? No, you do not have to
report the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye to OSHA if it
occurred on a commercial or public transportation system (e.g., airplane, train, subway, or
bus). However, the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye must
be recorded on your OSHA injury and illness records, if you are required to keep such
records.

(5) Do I have to report a work-related fatality or in-patient hospitalization caused by a
heart attack? Yes, your local OSHA Area Office director will decide whether to investigate
the event, depending on the circumstances of the heart attack.

(6) What if the fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye does not
occur during or right after the work-related incident? You must only report a fatality to
OSHA if the fatality occurs within thirty (30) days of the work-related incident. For an in-
patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye, you must only report the event to
OSHA if it occurs within twenty-four (24) hours of the work-related incident. However, the
fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye must be recorded on your
OSHA injury and illness records, if you are required to keep such records.

(7) What if I don't learn about a reportable fatality, in-patient hospitalization,
amputation, or loss of an eye right away? If you do not learn about a reportable fatality,
in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye at the time it takes place, you
must make the report to OSHA within the following time period after the fatality, in-patient
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye is reported to you or to any of your
agent(s): Eight (8) hours for a fatality, and twenty-four (24) hours for an in-patient
hospitalization, an amputation, or a loss of an eye.

(8) What if I don't learn right away that the reportable fatality, in-patient
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye was the result of a work-related incident? If
you do not learn right away that the reportable fatality, in-patient hospitalization,
amputation, or loss of an eye was the result of a work-related incident, you must make the
report to OSHA within the following time period after you or any of your agent(s) learn that
the reportable fatality, in-patient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye was the
result of a work-related incident: Eight (8) hours for a fatality, and twenty-four (24)
hours for an in-patient hospitalization, an amputation, or a loss of an eye.

(9) How does OSHA define “in-patient hospitalization”? OSHA defines in-patient
hospitalization as a formal admission to the in-patient service of a hospital or clinic for
care or treatment.

(10) Do I have to report an in-patient hospitalization that involves only observation or
diagnostic testing? No, you do not have to report an in-patient hospitalization that
involves only observation or diagnostic testing. You must only report to OSHA each in-
patient hospitalization that involves care or treatment.

(11) How does OSHA define “amputation”? An amputation is the traumatic loss of a limb or
other external body part. Amputations include a part, such as a limb or appendage, that has
been severed, cut off, amputated (either completely or partially); fingertip amputations
with or without bone loss; medical amputations resulting from irreparable damage;
amputations of body parts that have since been reattached. Amputations do not include
avulsions, enucleations, deglovings, scalpings, severed ears, or broken or chipped teeth.
