
--- page 1 ---
56140 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
criteria are partially exempt from the 
recordkeeping requirements in Part 
1904: 
1. Sector classification of NAICS 44– 
81. 
2. a DART rate of 75 percent or less 
of the overall three-year-average DART 
rate for private industry, using BLS data 
from 2007, 2008, and 2009. The average 
national DART rate for private industry 
for 2007–2009 was 2.0. Thus, the 
threshold for partial exemption for 
eligible industry groups (classified by 
four-digit NAICS) was a DART rate of 
1.5 or less. 
Like the proposed rule, the one 
exception is for Employment Services 
(NAICS 5613), which is not partially 
exempt. The three-year-average DART 
rate for the Employment Services 
industry group, using BLS data from 
2007, 2008, and 2009, was 1.1, which is 
below the 75 percent threshold of 1.5. 
However, this industry group is 
nonetheless ineligible for partial 
exemption on grounds that, for many 
employees in this industry, their actual 
place of work may be in an 
establishment that is in a different, non- 
partially-exempt industry group or 
sector, such as manufacturing. 
Therefore, NAICS 5613 Employment 
Services is not included in the final 
Appendix A to Subpart B. OSHA 
received no comments from the public 
about this exception. 
In the issues section of the preamble 
to the proposed rule, OSHA asked the 
public to comment on the 
appropriateness of the proposed 
exemption procedure; whether 
alternative procedures for determining 
partial exemption should be used; and 
whether specific industries should be 
included or excluded from the list of 
partially-exempt industries. OSHA 
notes that the final rule, like the 
proposed rule, is based on the most 
recent BLS injury and illness data 
available at the time of the proposed 
rule (2007–2009). Because OSHA is 
using the same criteria and same injury/ 
illness data to establish the list of 
partially-exempt industry groups, the 
industry groups in the proposed 
Appendix A to Subpart B and the final 
Appendix A to Subpart B are the same. 
Under the final rule, employers are 
not required to keep OSHA injury and 
illness records for any establishment 
classified in an industry group listed in 
Appendix A to Subpart B, unless they 
are asked in writing to do so by OSHA, 
BLS, or a state agency operating under 
the authority of OSHA or BLS. All 
employers covered by the OSH Act, 
including employers who are partially 
exempt from recordkeeping based on 
size or industry classification, must 
report all work-related fatalities, in- 
patient hospitalizations, amputations, or 
losses of an eye to OSHA, as required 
by Section 1904.39. 
For a more thorough discussion of the 
specific industry groups that are newly 
partially exempted or newly covered by 
the final rule, please refer to Section V 
of this supplementary information. 
Because the final rule will require 
some establishments that had been 
partially exempt from OSHA 
recordkeeping requirements to now 
comply completely with these 
requirements, OSHA will offer 
compliance assistance, including 
outreach and training, to help these 
establishments keep complete and 
accurate records and comply with the 
recordkeeping regulation. 
The partially-exempt industry groups 
are: 
NAICS 
code Industry 
4412 ....... Other Motor Vehicle Dealers. 
4431 ....... Electronics and Appliance Stores. 
4461 ....... Health and Personal Care Stores. 
4471 ....... Gasoline Stations. 
4481 ....... Clothing Stores. 
4482 ....... Shoe Stores. 
4483 ....... Jewelry, Luggage, and Leather 
Goods Stores. 
4511 ....... Sporting Goods, Hobby, and Mu-
sical Instrument Stores. 
4512 ....... Book, Periodical, and Music 
Stores. 
4531 ....... Florists. 
4532 ....... Office Supplies, Stationery, and 
Gift Stores. 
4812 ....... Nonscheduled Air Transportation. 
4861 ....... Pipeline Transportation of Crude 
Oil. 
4862 ....... Pipeline Transportation of Natural 
Gas. 
4869 ....... Other Pipeline Transportation. 
4879 ....... Scenic and Sightseeing Transpor-
tation, Other. 
4885 ....... Freight Transportation Arrange-
ment. 
5111 ....... Newspaper, Periodical, Book, and 
Directory Publishers. 
5112 ....... Software Publishers. 
5121 ....... Motion Picture and Video Indus-
tries. 
5122 ....... Sound Recording Industries. 
5151 ....... Radio and Television Broad-
casting. 
5172 ....... Wireless Telecommunications 
Carriers (except Satellite). 
5173 ....... Telecommunications Resellers. 
5179 ....... Other Telecommunications. 
5181 ....... Internet Service Providers and 
Web Search Portals. 
5182 ....... Data Processing, Hosting, and 
Related Services. 
5191 ....... Other Information Services. 
5211 ....... Monetary Authorities—Central 
Bank. 
5221 ....... Depository Credit Intermediation. 
5222 ....... Nondepository Credit Intermedi-
ation. 
NAICS 
code Industry 
5223 ....... Activities Related to Credit Inter-
mediation. 
5231 ....... Securities and Commodity Con-
tracts Intermediation and Bro-
kerage. 
5232 ....... Securities and Commodity Ex-
changes. 
5239 ....... Other Financial Investment Activi-
ties. 
5241 ....... Insurance Carriers. 
5242 ....... Agencies, Brokerages, and Other 
Insurance Related Activities. 
5251 ....... Insurance and Employee Benefit 
Funds. 
5259 ....... Other Investment Pools and 
Funds. 
5312 ....... Offices of Real Estate Agents and 
Brokers. 
5331 ....... Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible 
Assets (except Copyrighted 
Works). 
5411 ....... Legal Services. 
5412 ....... Accounting, Tax Preparation, 
Bookkeeping, and Payroll Serv-
ices. 
5413 ....... Architectural, Engineering, and 
Related Services. 
5414 ....... Specialized Design Services. 
5415 ....... Computer Systems Design and 
Related Services. 
5416 ....... Management, Scientific, and 
Technical Consulting Services. 
5417 ....... Scientific Research and Develop-
ment Services. 
5418 ....... Advertising and Related Services. 
5511 ....... Management of Companies and 
Enterprises. 
5611 ....... Office Administrative Services. 
5614 ....... Business Support Services. 
5615 ....... Travel Arrangement and Reserva-
tion Services. 
5616 ....... Investigation and Security Serv-
ices. 
6111 ....... Elementary and Secondary 
Schools. 
6112 ....... Junior Colleges. 
6113 ....... Colleges, Universities, and Pro-
fessional Schools. 
6114 ....... Business Schools and Computer 
and Management Training. 
6115 ....... Technical and Trade Schools. 
6116 ....... Other Schools and Instruction. 
6117 ....... Educational Support Services. 
6211 ....... Offices of Physicians. 
6212 ....... Offices of Dentists. 
6213 ....... Offices of Other Health Practi-
tioners. 
6214 ....... Outpatient Care Centers. 
6215 ....... Medical and Diagnostic Labora-
tories. 
6244 ....... Child Day Care Services. 
7114 ....... Agents and Managers for Artists, 
Athletes, Entertainers, and 
Other Public Figures. 
7115 ....... Independent Artists, Writers, and 
Performers. 
7213 ....... Rooming and Boarding Houses. 
7221 ....... Full-Service Restaurants. 
7222 ....... Limited-Service Eating Places. 
7224 ....... Drinking Places (Alcoholic Bev-
erages). 
8112 ....... Electronic and Precision Equip-
ment Repair and Maintenance. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 2 ---
56141 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
NAICS 
code Industry 
8114 ....... Personal and Household Goods 
Repair and Maintenance. 
8121 ....... Personal Care Services. 
8122 ....... Death Care Services. 
8131 ....... Religious Organizations. 
8132 ....... Grantmaking and Giving Serv-
ices. 
8133 ....... Social Advocacy Organizations. 
8134 ....... Civic and Social Organizations. 
8139 ....... Business, Professional, Labor, 
Political, and Similar Organiza-
tions. 
IV. Section 1904.39 Reporting 
Requirements for Fatalities, In-Patient 
Hospitalizations, Amputations, and 
Losses of an Eye 
A. Background 
OSHA has required employers to 
report work-related fatalities and certain 
work-related hospitalizations since 
1971, the year the OSH Act went into 
effect. The initial regulation in 29 CFR 
1904.8 required employers to report, 
within 48 hours, an employment 
incident resulting in the fatality of one 
or more employees or the 
hospitalization of five or more 
employees. Employers were required to 
report by telephone or telegraph to the 
nearest OSHA Area Office. 
In 1994, the Agency revised the 
regulation to require reporting, within 
eight hours, of any work-related fatality 
or hospitalization of three or more 
employees (59 FR 15594, April 1, 1994). 
OSHA explained in the preamble to the 
final rule that ‘‘[r]educing the reporting 
period from 48 hours to 8 hours enables 
OSHA to inspect the site of the incident 
and interview personnel while their 
recollections are more immediate, fresh 
and untainted by other events, thus 
providing more timely and accurate 
information.’’ In addition, OSHA stated 
that reducing the reporting time 
increased the chances that the site of the 
incident would remain undisturbed and 
also ‘‘coincided with a ‘standard work 
shift’ for most employers.’’ 
The 1994 rulemaking also addressed 
several other issues. First, OSHA 
explained that hospitalization meant in- 
patient admission and excluded 
admission solely for observation. 
Second, OSHA added regulatory 
language stating that if employers did 
not learn of a reportable incident when 
it occurred, they were required to report 
within eight hours of learning of the 
incident. Third, OSHA specified that 
employers were required to report any 
fatality or in-patient hospitalization of 
three or more people occurring within 
30 days of the incident. Fourth, OSHA 
added the option of reporting via 
OSHA’s centralized toll-free telephone 
number. 
The requirements from the 1994 
rulemaking have remained substantially 
unchanged and are currently codified at 
29 CFR 1904.39. 
B. The Proposed Rule 
The proposed rule would have made 
two major changes to OSHA’s reporting 
requirements. First, the proposed rule 
would have required employers to 
report the work-related in-patient 
hospitalization of one or more 
employees to OSHA. The current 
regulation requires reporting only if 
three or more employees are 
hospitalized. The reporting time would 
have been eight hours, the same as the 
current regulation. Second, the 
proposed rule would have required 
employers to report all work-related 
amputations to OSHA, within 24 hours. 
The current regulation does not 
specifically require the reporting of 
amputations. 
For the reporting of in-patient 
hospitalizations of fewer than three 
employees, OSHA explained that ‘‘[t]he 
hospitalization of a worker due to a 
work-related incident is a serious and 
significant event’’ (76 FR 36419). The 
preamble to the proposed rule explained 
that, for OSHA recordkeeping purposes, 
in-patient hospitalization occurs when a 
person is ‘‘formally admitted’’ to a 
hospital or clinic for at least one 
overnight stay. 
For the reporting of amputations, 
OSHA explained that ‘‘[a]mputations 
include some of the most serious types 
of injuries and tend to result in a greater 
number of lost workdays than most 
other injuries . . . Furthermore, 
amputations differ from other types of 
serious injuries because they have long- 
term or permanent consequences’’ (76 
FR 36419). The proposed rule defined 
amputations in proposed Section 
1904.39(b)(8) according to the definition 
in the 2007 release of the Occupational 
Injury and Illness Classification (OIICS) 
Manual of the Bureau of Labor Statistics 
(BLS). This definition of amputations 
excluded traumatic injuries without 
bone loss, as well as losses of an eye. 
In the NPRM, OSHA explained that 
the changes in the proposed rule would 
have made OSHA’s reporting 
requirements more similar to the 
requirements of other agencies, as well 
as to the requirements of some states 
that administer their own occupational 
safety and health programs. 
C. Comments to the Proposed Rule 
Many comments supported the 
reporting requirements included in 
OSHA’s proposed rule. Letitia Davis, 
ScD, EdM, the Director of the 
Occupational Health Surveillance 
Program at the Massachusetts 
Department of Public Health, noted: 
‘‘Case reporting of health events is a 
well-established approach to public 
health surveillance and intervention. 
Serious occupational injuries are urgent 
sentinel health events indicating that 
prevention efforts have failed and that 
intervention to remediate hazards may 
be warranted’’ (Ex. 84). However, OSHA 
also received multiple comments that 
the proposed rule would not prevent 
injuries and illnesses and is redundant, 
premature, and not supported by data. 
The Steel Manufacturers Association 
commented that ‘‘[d]ata in itself has 
never prevented any type of occurrence 
[of injuries]’’ and that ‘‘[t]he information 
required to be provided . . . while good 
at identifying basic information, does 
not collect any data that will serve in 
preventing future injuries or illnesses. 
The only possible preventative action 
that can be taken is for OSHA to 
conduct an inspection. The results are 
citations and press releases that provide 
little preventative effect beyond the 
employer involved’’ (Ex. 36). 
Mercer ORC HSE Networks 
commented that ‘‘merely establishing [a 
‘comprehensive database’ of information 
about the reportable events] may not be 
the best way, or even a very good way, 
to better determine how to better focus 
OSHA’s resources on high-hazard 
workplaces. Put another way, it is not at 
all clear that employers experiencing 
the new case categories identified in the 
rulemaking . . . pose increased future 
risk to workers, or are any more likely 
than other employers to experience 
future serious cases. OSHA makes that 
implicit assumption without support. 
For example, a study conducted by 
Rand several years ago for the Duke 
Energy Foundation found that sites 
experiencing fatalities usually posed 
less risk to workers for future serious 
injury, not more’’ (Ex. 68). 
In response, OSHA notes that the 
OSHA recordkeeping regulation has 
included requirements for employers to 
report certain work-related events to 
OSHA since 1971. These requirements 
have always been an important part of 
the Agency’s statutory mission to assure 
safe and healthful working conditions 
for working men and women. Timely 
reporting of work-related fatalities, as 
well as certain other serious work- 
related events, allows OSHA to assess 
whether an intervention is necessary 
and to target hazardous workplaces for 
inspection. 
In addition, OSHA is able to use 
information gained from the 
investigations of work-related fatalities 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 3 ---
56142 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
and other serious work-related events to 
identify workplace hazards and prevent 
similar incidents, both at the inspected 
workplace and at other workplaces. This 
information also can also be used to 
support the issuance of new safety and 
health standards and regulations, as 
well as the revision of existing OSHA 
standards and regulations. 
The Tree Care Industry Association 
commented, ‘‘Why would OSHA not 
work with State Workers Compensation 
programs and/or the State Plan OSHA’s 
that already collect hospitalization data 
before it imposes redundant reporting 
requirements on employers under 
federal OSHA jurisdiction?’’ (Ex. 37). 
In response, OSHA notes that one of 
the reasons for the reporting 
requirement in Section 1904.39 is to 
allow the Agency to conduct, if 
necessary, a prompt investigation of the 
incident leading to the serious 
occupational injury and illness event. 
OSHA also notes that six states with 
OSHA-approved State Plans currently 
require employers to report the in- 
patient hospitalization of fewer than 
three employees. As a result, OSHA 
concludes that the requirement to report 
in-patient hospitalizations of fewer than 
three employees would not be 
redundant even if OSHA had systematic 
access to hospitalization data from state 
workers’ compensation programs. 
Gruber Hurst Johansen Hail Shank 
commented, ‘‘If amputations and most 
incidents that require hospitalization 
are already recordable, then why is 
there a compelling need for additional 
reporting? . . . OSHA is already 
informed about these instances through 
recordkeeping’’ (Ex. 60). Similarly, the 
Joint Poultry Industry Safety and Health 
Council commented that ‘‘[t]he DART 
rate, calculated from existing injury and 
illness data, already identifies those 
workplaces with frequent, severe 
injuries. We fail to see why this 
currently available data is not sufficient 
to meet the goal of identifying ‘the most 
dangerous workplaces’ and why OSHA 
needs this type of additional injury 
data’’ (Ex. 61). 
Likewise, Mercer ORC HSE Networks 
commented that ‘‘[a]ll of the cases that 
would be reported under the new OSHA 
criteria should already be captured on 
the OSHA log. To target inspections, 
OSHA already collects summary data 
that includes these cases from a census 
of sites in portions of the private sector 
that the Agency feels tend to involve 
higher risk. BLS also captures the same 
information in more detailed form in a 
parallel . . . data collection effort. In 
addition to its annual survey that 
produces incidence rates and detailed 
case characteristics across industry, BLS 
also conducts a Census of Fatal 
Occupational Injuries (CFOI) that 
produces accurate counts and very 
detailed descriptive data on fatal work 
related injuries. So data on fatalities and 
amputations should clearly be 
accessible from existing data 
collections. Granted it might be harder 
to capture data on some in-patient 
hospitalizations. But some of that 
information could be obtained from 
existing OSHA supplementary records. 
Data that could not be extracted from 
existing OSHA records could be 
obtained by less burdensome means 
than proposed, such as conducting 
follow-back studies of a small sample of 
employers’’ (Ex. 68). 
In response, OSHA notes the 
distinction between the employer’s 
obligation to record an injury or illness 
and the employer’s obligation to report. 
Since OSHA’s founding, the reporting 
requirement has been separate from the 
recording requirement. As a rule, OSHA 
obtains the detailed, case-specific 
information recorded by employers 
under Part 1904 only when OSHA 
conducts an on-site inspection. And 
OSHA inspects only a small percentage 
of all establishments subject to OSHA 
authority each year. For example, in 
2010, OSHA and its state partners 
inspected approximately 1 percent of 
establishments subject to OSHA 
authority (approximately 98,000 
inspections, out of 7.5 million total 
establishments). 
On November 8, 2013, OSHA also 
published a notice of proposed 
rulemaking (NPRM) on Improve 
Tracking of Workplace Injuries and 
Illnesses, which would expand its 
collection of injury and illness data (FR 
78 67254–67283). In that NPRM, OSHA 
proposed collecting case-specific 
information from approximately 38,000 
establishments with 250 or more 
employees in industries subject to the 
recordkeeping requirements in Part 
1904. Again, this is only a small 
percentage of all establishments subject 
to OSHA authority. OSHA notes the 
proposed rule on improving tracking of 
workplace injuries and illnesses would 
not add to or change any employer’s 
obligation to complete and retain injury 
and illness records under OSHA’s 
regulations for recording and reporting 
occupational injuries and illnesses. The 
proposed rule also would not add to or 
change the recording criteria or 
definitions for these records. The 
proposed rule would only modify 
employers’ obligations to transmit 
information from these records to OSHA 
or OSHA’s designee. 
In addition, although all employers 
are subject to the requirement to report 
fatalities and specified non-fatal injury/ 
illness events, many employers are 
partially exempt from the Part 1904 
requirement to record injuries and 
illnesses. As a result, it is incorrect to 
assume that all amputations and most 
hospitalization incidents are captured in 
employer injury and illness records. As 
noted by the AFL–CIO, BLS data from 
2009 show that 217,000 DART cases 
(13% of total) occurred in industries 
that would have been partially exempt 
from recordkeeping due to industry 
classification under the NAICS update 
part of this proposed rule (Ex. 69). 
Work-related amputations and 
hospitalizations suffered by employees 
of employers with ten or fewer 
employees are also not required to be 
recorded. 
OSHA further notes that injury and 
illness summary information collected 
by OSHA for inspection targeting 
purposes through the OSHA Data 
Initiative (ODI) does not enable the 
Agency to identify specific hazards or 
problems at individual workplaces. 
Further, the ODI data are not timely 
because inspection targeting is based on 
injury/illness data from the previous 
year’s ODI, which is collected from the 
prior year. As a result, OSHA’s targeting 
is typically based on injury/illness data 
that are two or three years old. In 
addition, the group of 80,000 
establishments in each year’s ODI is not 
a statistically-representative sample, 
either of establishments eligible to be 
included in the ODI, or of 
establishments overall. 
Finally, for data collected by BLS, 
OSHA notes that, while the BLS Survey 
of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses 
(SOII) provides information about 
industries with frequent, severe injuries 
and illnesses, it does not identify 
specific workplaces with frequent, 
severe injuries and illnesses. Industries 
with frequent, severe injuries and 
illnesses may include workplaces where 
injuries and illnesses are rare and 
minor, just as industries with rare, 
minor injuries and illnesses may 
include workplaces where injuries and 
illnesses are frequent and severe. In any 
event, the Confidential Information 
Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act 
of 2002 (Pub. L. 107–347, Dec. 17, 2002) 
(CIPSEA) prohibits BLS from releasing 
establishment-specific data to the 
general public or to OSHA. As a result, 
for employer-specific, workplace- 
specific information about fatalities, 
OSHA relies on its own information, 
obtained through the current Part 1904 
requirement for employers to report 
fatalities to OSHA. 
The American Chemistry Council 
commented that ‘‘[s]everal ongoing 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 4 ---
56143 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
OSHA programs, such as the National 
Emphasis Program on Recordkeeping 
(NEP–R), target data reporting, 
including amputations . . . For 
example, NEP–R is relatively new 
(September 10) and was intended to 
address inaccuracies in recording of 
occupational illness and injury. The 
analysis of the results of this program 
would be useful in assessing whether 
continuation of NEP–R satisfies the 
intent of the [proposed rule]’’ (Ex. 76). 
They added, ‘‘OSHA currently has two 
programs, the National Emphasis 
Program on Amputations (NEP–A), and 
the Severe Violator Enforcement 
Program (SVEP), which specifically 
target amputations . . . The overall 
intent of both NEP–A and SVEP are 
identical to that of the [proposed rule]: 
‘to target scarce resources to the most 
dangerous workplaces and prevent 
future injuries at these workplaces’ (76 
FR 36419). Until a holistic evaluation of 
these existing amputation-focused 
programs is conducted, we recommend 
that OSHA exclude reporting of 
amputations [in the proposed rule] 
. . .’’ 
In response, OSHA notes, as above, 
the distinction between recording and 
reporting; the recordkeeping NEP was 
about recording injuries and illnesses, 
while this final rule in Section 1904.39 
is about reporting. OSHA also notes that 
there are multiple OSHA programs, 
including the amputations NEP and the 
SVEP, whose intent is to target scarce 
resources to the most dangerous 
workplaces and prevent future injuries 
at these workplaces. (Similarly, OSHA 
has multiple programs whose purpose is 
to assure safe and healthful working 
conditions for working men and 
women.) Neither the amputations NEP, 
nor the SVEP, provide the case reporting 
of sentinel occupational safety and 
health events that this final rule will 
provide. As a result, OSHA does not 
agree that the recordkeeping NEP, the 
amputations NEP, and/or the SVEP 
make this rulemaking premature. 
Mercer ORC HSE Networks 
commented that ‘‘[w]ith 40 years of rich 
agency ‘fat-cat’ investigation experience 
and data, it would have been reasonable 
to expect OSHA to have provided some 
(any) demonstration of how those 
investigations and the information 
gleaned from them have resulted in 
safer workplaces and how, with some 
specificity, the collection of the 
proposed substantially increased reports 
of incidents is expected to improve the 
agency’s effectiveness. As the proposal 
stands, there is almost no evidence (or 
data) in the record to support OSHA’s 
‘belief’ that collecting this new 
information will make a positive 
difference in Agency efficiency or in 
serious injury reduction’’ (Ex. 68). 
The National Roofing Contractors 
Association commented that ‘‘OSHA 
offers no evidence, data or research that 
shows a beneficial effect on workplace 
safety based on either the arbitrary 
timeframes it suggests or other 
timeframes it may have considered or 
analyzed’’ (Ex. 118). They added, ‘‘The 
history of reporting requirements . . . 
could be valuable for the agency to 
investigate further to determine the 
potential effectiveness of its proposed 
revisions. In 1971, employers were 
required to report, within 48 hours, any 
worker fatality or in-patient 
hospitalization of 5 or more workers. 
This reporting requirement was revised 
23 years later in 1994 to require 
reporting, within 8 hours, of any 
workplace fatality or in-patient 
hospitalization of three or more workers 
. . . What methodologies and metrics 
were employed to assess the impact on 
worker safety of the regulatory 
requirements immediately after those 
two reporting revisions became 
effective? Analysis of prior history of 
similar action taken by the agency 
should provide a better answer as to 
how this action will enhance worker 
safety than the cryptic OSHA statement 
that benefits are not quantified but are 
‘significantly in excess of annual 
costs’.’’ 
In response, OSHA notes that the 
Agency did not have metrics and 
methodologies when these regulations 
were implemented to allow OSHA to 
evaluate the effects of the revisions. It 
was therefore not possible within the 
timeframe of this rulemaking to provide 
an analysis singling out the effect of the 
1971 reporting requirement and the 
1994 rulemaking from among the 
enormous number of variables related to 
the decrease in number and rate of 
injuries, illnesses, and fatalities since 
OSHA’s founding. Further, OSHA notes 
that case reporting of health events is a 
well-established approach to public 
health surveillance and intervention. 
Serious occupational injuries and 
illnesses are urgent sentinel health 
events indicating that prevention efforts 
have failed and that intervention to 
remediate hazards may be warranted. 
OSHA further discusses the benefits of 
the rule in the Final Economic Analysis 
in Section V of this supplementary 
information. 
Specific Questions Asked in the 
Proposed Rule 
The preamble to the proposed rule 
included eight questions relevant to the 
reporting part of this rulemaking. Each 
question is repeated below, followed by 
public comments and OSHA’s response 
to the comments. 
1. Types of Incidents and/or Injuries 
and Illnesses for Required Reporting 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked, ‘‘What types of incidents 
and/or injuries and illnesses should be 
reported to OSHA and why?’’ 
Comments responding to this 
question primarily focused on three 
main topics: 
1. The seriousness and significance of 
the in-patient hospitalization of a single 
worker. 
2. The definition of in-patient 
hospitalization. 
3. The potential complications 
resulting from a requirement to report 
the in-patient hospitalizations of fewer 
than three employees. 
There were many comments about the 
seriousness and significance of the in- 
patient hospitalization of a single 
worker. Many commenters stated that it 
is not necessarily a serious or significant 
event (Exs. 19, 24, 26, 27, 29, 31, 35, 51, 
55, 60, 72, 82, 94, 100, 102, 104, 110, 
111, 114, 115, 125). Many other 
commenters stated that it is (Exs. 59, 62, 
69, 74, 75, 77, 86, 93, 112). 
Spurlock and Higgins commented that 
‘‘there are numerous circumstances 
surrounding a decision to hospitalize a 
single employee . . . that do not 
necessarily stem from an employer’s 
failure to identify and/or control a 
particular hazard’’ (Ex. 24). Safety 
Compliance Services commented that 
‘‘[w]hether a person is hospitalized is 
not related to whether there are hazards 
in the workplace or poor employer 
controls’’ (Ex. 29). Similarly, the 
International Fragrance Association 
North America (IFRA–NA) commented 
that ‘‘the decision to hospitalize a single 
employee can be influenced by factors 
that are not connected to work place 
hazards’’ (Ex. 51). The Healthcare 
Distribution Management Association 
(HDMA) commented that ‘‘[a] single 
[non-fatal] injury does not indicate a 
major workplace issue’’ (Ex. 55). Gruber 
Hurst Johansen Hail Shank commented 
that ‘‘the hospitalization of one 
employee may or may not be considered 
significant, depending on the 
circumstances’’ (Ex. 60). Ameren 
commented that ‘‘[single in-patient 
hospitalizations] do not always 
represent a serious injury or illness’’ 
(Ex. 72). Stericycle commented that 
‘‘single hospitalizations may not be a 
good indicator of serious hazards in the 
workplace’’ and that ‘‘. . . many 
workplace hospitalizations occur due to 
non work-related events’’ (Ex. 82). The 
Small Business Administration Office of 
Advocacy (SBA–OA) commented that 
‘‘. . . single employee hospitalizations 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 5 ---
56144 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
often do not signify an emergency 
situation . . .’’ (Ex. 94). The Pacific 
Maritime Association commented that 
‘‘th[e] injury could be purely 
accidental’’ or be an ‘‘isolated [incident] 
that may have nothing to do with 
workplace safety . . .’’ (Ex. 100). The 
Retail Industry Leaders Association 
(RILA) commented that in-patient 
hospitalizations ‘‘potentially would 
include a wide variety of situations, 
ranging from minor incident to a 
significant workplace accident’’ (Ex. 
102); the Shipbuilders Council of 
America made a similar comment (Ex. 
104). The National Utility Contractors 
Association (NUCA) commented that 
‘‘[e]mployees are commonly 
hospitalized for evaluation of injuries 
including chest pain or mild 
concussions which are often not 
serious’’ (Ex. 110). The American 
Supply Association commented that 
‘‘[e]ach and every day, workers have 
mishaps such as joint dislocations or 
concussions which may result in a 
hospitalization, perhaps solely because 
of the injury or possibly secondary to 
underlying medical conditions. These 
injuries may not even be related to 
workplace conditions but rather to 
something as simple as a lapse in 
concentration’’ (Ex. 111). The American 
Road and Transportation Builders 
Association (ARTBA) commented that 
‘‘a single injury or illness often does not 
indicate an unsafe workplace’’ (Ex. 114); 
the Associated General Contractors of 
America (AGC) made a similar comment 
(Ex. 115). 
Commenters arguing that the in- 
patient hospitalization of a single 
worker is a serious and significant event 
for occupational safety and health 
included the Department of Workplace 
Standards in the Kentucky Labor 
Cabinet (Kentucky), stating that 
‘‘Kentucky believes, for several reasons, 
the hospitalization of any employee or 
any number of employees due to a 
work-related injury or illness . . . are 
significant events that must be reported. 
Most importantly, reporting allows for 
prompt investigation, if needed, to 
ensure the prevention of additional 
injury or illness’’ (Ex. 52). The AFL–CIO 
commented that ‘‘the need to 
hospitalize a single worker after a 
workplace incident is a clear indication 
that it was a serious event’’ (Ex. 59) and 
that ‘‘[c]ollecting this information . . . 
will greatly assist OSHA in developing 
data and understanding about the 
causes of injuries and illnesses 
responsible for the incident, provide the 
agency with an opportunity to conduct 
an inspection if it chooses, and help in 
assessing the adequacy of the 
standards’’ (Ex. 69). The Transport 
Workers Union (TWU) commented that 
‘‘work-related incidents resulting in in- 
patient hospitalizations . . . are 
extremely serious events resulting in 
significant burden, and often 
subsequent impairment, to employees 
who suffer them. Understanding the 
root causes and workplace factors which 
contributed to these events’ occurrence 
is a prerequisite to eliminating hazards 
and preventing workers from 
encountering further illness and injury’’ 
(Ex. 74). The National Council for 
Occupational Safety and Health 
(NCOSH) commented that ‘‘[g]iven that 
even fairly serious work-related injuries 
may not result in a hospital admission, 
OSHA should be notified promptly of 
all incidents requiring the 
hospitalization of any worker’’ (Ex. 75). 
The United Automobile, Aerospace, and 
Agricultural Implement Workers of 
America (UAW) commented that the 
requirement for reporting single in- 
patient hospitalizations ‘‘is an 
improvement over the current 
requirement’’ that will ‘‘provid[e] a 
significant increase in vitally useful 
information available to OSHA’’ (Ex. 
77); the United Steelworkers (USW) 
made a similar comment (Ex. 86). Letitia 
Davis commented that ‘‘[c]ase reporting 
of health events is a well-established 
approach to public health surveillance 
and intervention. Serious occupational 
injuries are urgent sentinel health 
events indicating that prevention efforts 
have failed and that intervention to 
remediate hazards may be warranted’’ 
(Ex. 84). United Support and Memorial 
for Workplace Fatalities (USMWF) 
commented that ‘‘OSHA needs to be 
informed about every work-related 
hospitalization to decide whether other 
workers are at-risk’’ (Ex. 93). 
OSHA agrees with the commenters 
who stated that the in-patient 
hospitalization of an employee after a 
work-related incident is a serious and 
significant event. The hospitalization 
indicates that serious hazards may exist 
in the workplace and that an 
intervention to abate these hazards and 
prevent further injury or illness may be 
warranted. OSHA will develop internal 
guidance for determining which 
incidents to inspect and which to 
handle using other interventions. Even 
when OSHA determines that an 
inspection is not warranted, OSHA will 
follow up with the employer about the 
hospitalization event. OSHA may follow 
up via email, phone, or fax, with regular 
reminders and deadlines. 
In addition, employers’ reports the 
event help OSHA gather information 
about serious workplaces injuries and 
illnesses to help focus agency resources 
and assess the adequacy of its safety and 
health standards. For example, the 
reports on amputations will provide the 
Agency with information it currently 
does not have to further focus the scope 
of its Amputation NEP and to evaluate 
any deficiencies of its machine guarding 
standards. As a result, like the proposed 
rule, Section 1904.39(a)(2) of the final 
rule requires employers to report the 
work-related in-patient hospitalization 
of one or more employees. 
There were also many comments 
about the definition of an in-patient 
hospitalization. The preamble to the 
proposed rule explained that, for OSHA 
recordkeeping purposes, an in-patient 
hospitalization occurs when a person is 
‘‘formally admitted’’ to a hospital or 
clinic for at least one overnight stay. 
Some commenters recommended 
excluding hospitalization for 
observation or diagnostic testing only 
from the reporting requirement for in- 
patient hospitalization (Ex. 15, 38). 
They also asked OSHA to clarify the 
meanings of ‘‘formal admission’’ and 
‘‘overnight stay’’ (Ex. 17, 38, 51, 76, 79, 
100, 103, 115, 120). In addition, some 
commenters recommended excluding 
scheduled hospitalization admissions 
for the treatment of chronic conditions 
(for a discussion of this issue, see 
Question 6). 
In response to these comments, the 
final rule includes both a definition of 
in-patient hospitalization and a 
clarification about hospitalization for 
observation and diagnostic testing. 
OSHA will define in-patient 
hospitalization as a formal admission to 
the in-patient service of a hospital or 
clinic for care or treatment (see sections 
1904.39(b)(9) and (b)(10) of the final 
rule). 
There were also comments about the 
complications that might result from a 
requirement to report the in-patient 
hospitalizations of fewer than three 
employees. For example, the American 
Iron and Steel Institute commented that 
the ‘‘requirement to make notification of 
an isolated case within 8 hours, 
particularly for these ambiguous cases, 
will be burdensome to both the 
employer and OSHA’’ (Ex. 108); the 
International Association of Drilling 
Contractors (IADC) and Stericycle made 
similar comments (Exs. 39, 82). The 
HDMA commented that the ‘‘vast 
majority of states do not have this type 
of requirement, and it would be a 
significant shift in policy for them to 
adopt it’’ (Ex. 55). Verizon commented 
that the requirement will result in over- 
reporting of non-work-related hospital 
admissions by compliant employers, 
‘‘caus[ing] these employers to incur 
unnecessary costs and burdens 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 6 ---
56145 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
associated with over-reporting’’ (Ex 78); 
similarly, Ingalls Shipbuilding warned 
of the risk that ‘‘the data may 
disproportionately ‘point the finger’ 
toward major manufacturers who 
aggressively implement programs to 
control safety and health hazards while 
leading OSHA to bypass smaller entities 
who demonstrate ‘plain indifference to 
employee safety and health’ ’’ (Ex. 103). 
The Pacific Maritime Association 
commented that employers may not be 
able to acquire the necessary 
information in time: ‘‘Has OSHA ever 
tried to contact a hospital to gather 
information on an employee? . . . The 
reply that we often receive is that we 
cannot provide you with any 
information due to privacy concerns. 
Despite being entitled to know if an 
employee has been ‘admitted’ to the 
hospital, this does not always occur’’ 
(Ex. 100); Stericycle and the RILA made 
similar comments (Exs. 82, 102). 
Other commenters, however, pointed 
out that requirements similar to the 
proposed rule already exist, without 
causing undue burdens or 
complications. The State of Kentucky 
commented that their ‘‘regulation has 
served the employers and employees 
very effectively. The Kentucky OSH 
program believes its requirements 
support the prevention of additional 
injuries or illnesses, effectively direct 
OSH Program resources, and reduce the 
state’s occupational injury and illness 
rates. Experience has established that 
Kentucky’s requirements do not exert an 
increase in the burden of regulatory 
compliance’’ (Ex. 52). The AFL–CIO 
commented that the ‘‘existence of 
similar reporting requirements in state- 
administered occupational safety and 
health plans in Alaska, California and 
Washington demonstrates that the 
proposed change is feasible to comply 
with and to administer’’ (Ex. 59). The 
UAW made a similar comment, adding 
that Oregon also requires reporting of 
hospitalizations of one or two 
employees, within 24 hours (Ex. 77). 
The Occupational Health Section of the 
American Public Health Association 
(APHA) commented that ‘‘[i]n an era of 
electronic recordkeeping, which in the 
occupational health arena includes 
workers compensation reports to and 
from insurers as well as BLS/OSHA 
logs, it should be a minor cost to enable 
broad and prompt reporting across a 
range of industries’’ (Ex. 62). Worksafe 
commented that their experience with 
reporting requirements in California, as 
well as ‘‘that of other states with similar 
requirements (as well as those of other 
countries) is one indication of how 
feasible they are to implement’’ (Ex. 
112). 
OSHA finds that many employers are 
already subject to the requirement to 
report in-patient hospitalizations of 
fewer than three employees. Alaska, 
California, Kentucky, Oregon, Utah, and 
Washington currently require reporting 
of single in-patient hospitalizations. 
According to 2009 data from County 
Business Patterns at the U.S. Census 
Bureau, these states accounted for over 
1.3 million establishments (18 percent 
of the national total) and 19.4 million 
paid employees (17 percent of the 
national total). One of these states, 
Kentucky, specifically commented that 
‘‘[e]xperience has established that 
Kentucky’s requirements do not exert an 
increase in the burden of regulatory 
compliance’’ (Ex. 52). 
OSHA therefore concludes that the 
requirement to report in-patient 
hospitalizations of fewer than three 
employees is feasible and practicable 
and will not impose an undue burden 
on employers. 
In addition, as explained elsewhere in 
this document, this final rule at Section 
1904.39(a)(2) requires employers to 
report all work-related in-patient 
hospitalizations to OSHA within 24 
hours, rather than within 8 hours, as in 
the proposed rule. This change gives 
employers more time to determine 
whether the employee has been formally 
admitted for in-patient hospitalization 
and whether the hospitalization results 
from a work-related event. 
This final rule requires employers to 
report to OSHA, within 24 hours, all 
work-related in-patient hospitalizations 
within 24 hours of the incident 
(§ 1904.39(a)(2) and (b)(6)). 
2. Non-Hospitalization Injuries, 
Illnesses, or Conditions for Required 
Reporting 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Are there any injuries, 
illnesses, or conditions that should be 
reported to OSHA and are not included 
among in-patient hospitalizations?’’ 
The UAW commented that 
Legionnaires’ disease and 
hypersensitivity pneumonia ‘‘are 
potentially indicative of serious and 
correctible hazards in the workplace 
and should be reported to OSHA upon 
physician diagnosis regardless of 
whether or not they result in inpatient 
hospitalization’’ (Ex. 77). 
OSHA does not agree that the final 
rule should include a specific 
requirement for employers to report 
work-related cases of Legionnaires’ 
disease and hypersensitivity 
pneumonitis. The work relationship of 
Legionnaires’ is generally established by 
a cluster of cases. When clusters do 
occur, they are reported to state and 
local public health departments, which 
conduct investigations of the problem. 
Severe cases of work-related 
Legionnaires’ disease would result in 
hospital admission and therefore would 
trigger the reporting requirement in 
Section 1904.39. 
OSHA believes a specific diagnosis of 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis does not 
necessarily indicate work-relatedness or 
an emergency situation that requires 
immediate OSHA intervention. Clusters 
of this condition (captured on the OSHA 
Log) would indicate intervention is 
needed, but a single reported case 
would be considered a sentinel health 
event. Again, it should be noted that a 
severe work-related case would likely 
result in in-patient hospitalization and 
therefore would trigger the reporting 
requirement. 
3. Non-Hospitalization Amputations for 
Required Reporting 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Should amputations that 
do not result in in-patient 
hospitalizations be reported to OSHA?’’ 
Some commenters stated that OSHA 
should not require employers to report 
amputations that do not involve in- 
patient hospitalization. The Printing 
Industries of America (PIA) commented 
that ‘‘it is not known what sort of 
amputation could be experienced 
without an in-patient hospitalization. 
However, if such an amputation would 
occur and did not require an in-patient 
hospitalization it would be reasonable 
to assume that such an incident was not 
severe enough to require hospitalization 
and therefore should not be subject to a 
reporting requirement’’ (Ex. 45). The 
IADC commented that ‘‘this only adds 
burdensome reporting for the employer. 
It is confusing and will result in 
employers spending valuable early 
incident investigation time attempting 
to determine the reportability of an 
incident’’ (Ex 39). The American 
Chemistry Council commented that 
‘‘OSHA could avoid ambiguity by 
eliminating independent reporting of 
amputations (i.e., separate from in- 
patient hospitalizations), as severe 
amputations would be captured in in- 
patient hospitalization statistics’’ (Ex. 
76). Ameren commented that ‘‘[c]ases of 
amputation . . . that do not result in 
hospitalization of the employee would 
not likely warrant OSHA’s 
examination’’ (Ex 72). The National 
Petrochemical and Refiners Association 
(NPRA) commented that ‘‘. . . reporting 
all work-related amputations is 
redundant if the requirement for 
reporting all hospitalizations is adopted. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 7 ---
56146 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
It is not likely that an amputation would 
occur that would not result in a 
hospitalization and if it didn’t, it would 
not be a serious enough injury to 
warrant a follow-up by OSHA’’ (Ex. 80). 
The National Grain and Feed 
Association (NGFA) commented that 
‘. . . minor incidents that do not require 
hospitalization—including loss of the 
fingertip to the bone—should not be 
[reportable]. However, we do agree that 
significant incidents such as loss of a 
limb, which would require 
hospitalization, should be reportable’’ 
(Ex. 96). The RILA recommended 
requiring the reporting only of 
amputations ‘‘necessitating in-patient 
hospital treatment’’ and not of 
‘‘incidents in which the injury 
necessitates minor treatment in an 
emergency room or out-patient facility’’ 
(Ex. 102). 
Other commenters, however, 
supported the requirement to report all 
amputations, regardless of whether they 
resulted in in-patient hospitalizations. 
Most of these commenters provided data 
showing the prevalence and significance 
of amputations that did not involve in- 
patient hospitalization. 
NIOSH commented that ‘‘[o]f the 2.6 
million [emergency department (ED)] 
visits for work-related injuries and 
illnesses in 2009 [in the NIOSH–NEISS- 
Work dataset], approximately 15,000 
workers were diagnosed as having 
sustained an amputation (includes 
injuries with bone loss, possibly 
without bone loss, severe avulsions, and 
near amputations). Of these, 78% were 
treated and released while 22% were 
admitted to the hospital or transferred to 
another facility.’’ NIOSH continued, 
‘‘. . . given that over 
3⁄4 of ED treated 
work-related injuries and illnesses were 
treated and released, collecting the less 
severe injuries that are simply treated 
and released may identify areas that 
need further investigation.’’ NIOSH 
recommended that employers be 
required to report all amputations to 
OSHA (Ex. 66). 
The UAW commented that ‘‘[n]inety 
six percent of amputations involve a 
finger. These amputations may have a 
permanently disabling impact on their 
victims’ lives, but may, in some cases be 
treated by outpatient surgery and not 
lead to inpatient hospitalization. They 
should nevertheless be reported to 
OSHA’’ (Ex. 77). The United Food and 
Commercial Workers International 
Union (UFCW) made a similar comment 
(Ex. 81). 
Finally, Letitia Davis cited data 
collected by the Massachusetts 
Department of Public Health (MDPH) 
showing that ‘‘there were 696 work- 
related amputations treated in 
Massachusetts hospitals during 2007– 
2008, an average of 348 amputations per 
year. The majority of these cases were 
treated in the emergency department 
only (N = 501; 71%); a small number (N 
= 28; 4%) were first treated in 
emergency departments and 
hospitalized at a later date; 22% (N = 
156) were first treated as inpatients. 
These findings suggest that restricting 
reporting to amputations treated only an 
inpatient basis would substantially 
reduce number of cases identified and 
miss important opportunities for 
intervention’’ (Ex. 84). 
OSHA finds that amputations are 
significant workplace injuries and that 
the data show that the majority of 
amputations do not involve in-patient 
hospitalizations. As a result, like the 
proposed rule, the final rule will require 
employers to report all amputations to 
OSHA, whether or not they involve in- 
patient hospitalization (see 
§ 1904.39(a)(2)). (Note that, for 
amputations involving in-patient 
hospitalization, employers will only 
have to make a single report.) 
4. Required Reporting of Amputations 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Should OSHA require 
the reporting of all amputations?’’ 
Commenters responding to this 
question primarily focused on two main 
topics: 
1. The seriousness and significance of 
amputations. 
2. The definition of amputations. 
On the topic of the seriousness and 
significance of amputations, many 
commenters opposed the requirement in 
the proposed rule to report all 
amputations. Spurlock and Higgins 
commented that ‘‘the mere occurrence 
of an amputation can often be attributed 
to numerous hazards for which OSHA 
has no standard, or there are few, 
practical hazard controls at an 
employer’s disposal’’ (Ex. 24); Safety 
Compliance Services made a similar 
comment (Ex. 29). The IADC 
commented that ‘‘[r]eporting 
amputations, such as the tip of a finger, 
is overly burdensome and again offers 
little value in protecting workers from 
occupational hazards’’ (Ex. 39). The PIA 
commented that ‘‘in most cases, 
especially in the printing industry, 
singular cases [of amputations] are not 
associated with a significant event or a 
high gravity situation’’ (Ex. 45). The 
American Society of Safety Engineers 
(ASSE) commented that ‘‘[w]hile not 
underestimating the serious nature of 
any amputation, it must be noted that an 
amputation of a part of a finger may, in 
the reasonable person’s mind, is not as 
serious or traumatic an event as the 
amputation of an arm, hand, leg or foot. 
Further, other injuries like multiple 
broken bones, crushed vertebra, head 
injuries can be more serious and life- 
altering than an amputation. From that 
viewpoint, singling out amputations 
makes little sense other than the 
perception that they are more easily 
recordable. However, even that is 
questioned by our members’’ (Ex. 46); 
Newport News Shipbuilding made a 
similar comment (Ex. 125). The 
American Foundry Society commented 
that the reporting requirement should be 
limited to amputations involving at least 
one joint (Ex. 101). NUCA commented 
that ‘‘[w]ith respect to all amputations 
as severe injuries, . . . amputations . . . 
do not amount to a fatality or 
catastrophic event’’ (Ex. 110). 
In addition, the American Chemistry 
Council commented that rulemaking on 
the reporting of amputations be 
postponed ‘‘[u]ntil a holistic evaluation 
of [the National Emphasis Program 
(NEP) on amputations and the Severe 
Violator Enforcement Program (SVEP)] 
is conducted’’ (Ex. 76). Similarly, the 
Associated General Contractors of 
America (AGC) commented that the 
reporting requirement for amputations 
is ‘‘unnecessary’’ because ‘‘[o]ver the 
past five years since the effective date of 
the [amputations NEP] the agency has 
had an opportunity to collect the 
necessary data to enforce and evaluate 
the effectiveness of existing standards’’ 
(Ex. 115). 
However, many other commenters 
supported the requirement in the 
proposed rule to report all work-related 
amputations (Exs. 34, 112). The Phylmar 
Regulatory Roundtable (PRR) 
commented that ‘‘an amputation as 
defined in the proposal [to include loss 
of bone] indicates a serious traumatic 
injury and is thus properly included 
under the reporting regulation’’ (Ex. 38). 
NIOSH commented, ‘‘Given the high 
probability that most amputations 
require some form of medical care 
through hospitals or emergency 
departments, OSHA should require the 
reporting of all amputation cases’’ (Ex. 
66). NCOSH commented that 
‘‘[a]mputations are serious injuries with 
permanent consequences; thus, it is 
important all of these cases be reported 
to OSHA’’ (Ex. 75). The USW 
commented that ‘‘[l]essons can be 
learned from this amputation while the 
events leading up to the incident are 
clear to the witnesses. Amputees don’t 
just happen, there were unsafe 
condition(s), change in procedure, 
equipment or a number of other factors. 
This person’s life is changed forever’’ 
(Ex. 86). 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 8 ---
56147 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
The AFL–CIO referred to BLS data to 
support their statement that an 
‘‘amputation is a serious, severe, and 
significant event that can result in some 
permanent impairment.’’ According to 
BLS data from 2009, the median number 
of days away from work (DAFW) for an 
amputation was 21 days, compared to a 
median of 8 days for all work-related 
injuries and illnesses. The AFL–CIO 
added that the number of amputations 
involving days away from work was 
5,930, representing 0.6% of all DAFW 
injuries/illnesses. The AFL–CIO 
commented that the proportion of 
amputations among total injuries/
illnesses is ‘‘similar to, or less than, 
0.6% reported for injuries involving 
[DAFW] (given that most amputations 
are likely to involve some number of 
[days away from work]’’ and concluded 
that ‘‘[t]hus, it’s evident to us that, given 
the numbers of amputations that occur 
annually in the U.S., reporting all 
amputations to OSHA would pose 
nothing more than a minimal burden on 
employers’’ (Ex. 69). In addition, the 
AFL–CIO stated that ‘‘California and 
Kentucky already require the reporting 
of amputations as part of their state- 
administered plans, proving that such a 
requirement is feasible’’ (Ex. 59); the 
UAW made a similar comment (Ex. 77). 
Finally, Letitia Davis’s comments also 
included data on amputations, 
specifically the results of the referral of 
work-related amputations to OSHA in 
Massachusetts (Ex. 84). ‘‘In July 2010, 
the Massachusetts Public Health 
Department initiated a protocol referring 
work-related amputations with logically 
consistent body part codes to OSHA for 
follow-up. In 2010, 22 private 
employers were referred to one of three 
OSHA area offices. The 22 referrals 
resulted in 13 on-site inspections and 
additional phone/fax initiatives. Among 
the 13 inspections, OSHA had already 
been notified about two of the injuries 
(from city police or fire departments 
that responded to the site) and had 
already initiated inspections at the time 
of the referrals. Nine of the referrals 
leading to onsite inspections resulted in 
citations, indicating shortcomings or 
failures of occupational health and 
safety programming. These included 
citations related to lockout/tagout, lack 
of machine guarding, failure to conduct 
a hazard assessment and the general 
duty clause . . . Notably amputations 
were verified in nine of the 13 onsite 
investigations. Four were found to be 
other injuries. Even when amputations 
did not occur, OSHA found hazardous 
conditions that were associated with 
other serious injuries. These findings 
indicate that OSHA investigations 
prompted by case reports of 
amputations are productive, and well- 
targeted, leading to identification of 
serious workplace hazards and concrete 
steps to eliminate hazards that cause or 
contribute to injuries. They suggest that 
direct reporting of amputations to 
OSHA by employers would be an 
effective means of targeting limited 
enforcement resources to high priority 
problems.’’ 
Although these results are limited to 
the experience of OSHA’s area offices in 
Massachusetts, OSHA believes it is 
reasonable to expect comparable 
findings and results in its other area 
offices across the country. OSHA area 
offices operate using standardized 
procedures. Reviews of OSHA 
inspection data have shown that 
inspections conducted by area offices 
under national programs routinely have 
similar results across the country. 
OSHA agrees with commenters who 
stated that amputations are serious 
events. OSHA refers to BLS data 
showing that in 2010, half of fingertip 
amputations involved 18 or more days 
away from work. OSHA finds that all 
amputations are severe and significant 
workplace injuries, including 
amputations of fingertips and fingers as 
well as amputations of large body parts, 
such as hands, arms, and feet, and that 
reports of amputations to OSHA can be 
an effective way of targeting workplace 
hazards. In addition, the requirement to 
report work-related amputations will 
help OSHA determine the causes of 
these injuries and develop enforcement 
strategies and guidance to help prevent 
them. 
In addition, OSHA notes the existing 
California and Kentucky state 
requirements to report work-related 
amputations, which are similar to the 
requirements under this final rule, show 
that such requirements are feasible. 
Finally, OSHA believes that 
comments such as those by Spurlock 
and Higgins (Ex. 24), saying that 
amputations can often be attributed to 
numerous hazards for which OSHA has 
no standard, or there are few, practical 
hazard controls at an employer’s 
disposal, actually support OSHA’s 
decision to require the reporting of 
work-related amputations. Section 
5(a)(1) of the OSH Act requires 
employers to ‘‘. . . furnish to each of 
his employees employment and a place 
of employment which are free from 
recognized hazards that are causing or 
are likely to cause death or serious 
physical harm to his employees.’’ 
Section 5(a)(1) does not make 
exceptions for hazards for which OSHA 
has no standards or employers have few 
practical controls. In addition, reports of 
amputations will provide OSHA with 
data to identify hazards and support the 
development of further standards and 
practical controls. Thus, employer 
reports of amputations, and OSHA 
intervention in workplaces where 
amputations occurred, are both critical 
for complying with Section 5(a)(1) of the 
OSH Act and preventing further serious 
injury or death. 
The final rule requires employers to 
report to OSHA, within 24 hours, all 
amputations that result from a work- 
related incident within 24 hours of the 
incident (see § 1904.39(a)(2) and (b)(6)). 
On the topic of the definition of an 
amputation, there were comments on 
the definition in the proposed rule, as 
well as requests for clarification. The 
proposed rule defined amputations 
according to the 2007 release of the 
OIICS Manual published by BLS, as 
follows: ‘‘An amputation is the 
traumatic loss of a limb or other external 
body part, including a fingertip. In order 
for an injury to be classified as an 
amputation, bone must be lost. 
Amputations include loss of a body part 
due to a traumatic incident, a gunshot 
wound, and medical amputations due to 
irreparable traumatic injuries. 
Amputations exclude traumatic injuries 
without bone loss and exclude 
enucleation (eye removal).’’ 
Nonetheless, several commenters 
requested a definition of ‘‘amputation’’ 
(Ex. 14, 17, 60, 101, 108). 
There were also comments about both 
the wording of the definition and the 
implementation of the definition. 
Colony Tire Corporation asked about 
reporting a finger that had been 
amputated, reattached, and then later 
removed (Ex. 35). Dow Chemical 
Company commented that ‘‘[t]he 
proposed wording of Section 
1904.39(b)(8) defines ‘amputation’ in a 
manner that is extremely unclear’’ (Ex. 
64). The American Chemistry Council 
recommended that OSHA use the 
definition of amputations in the 2010 
release of the OIICS Manual ‘‘and clarify 
whether avulsions are included, to 
avoid ambiguity’’ (Ex. 76). IPC- 
Association Connecting Electronics 
Industries (IPC) ‘‘encourage[d] OSHA to 
amend the Field Operations Manual 
(FOM) to include the definition’’ in the 
proposed rule (Ex. 47), and Kentucky 
‘‘recommend[ed] and respectfully 
request[ed] that OSHA include a 
definition of amputation in 29 CFR 
1904.46’’, the definitions subpart of Part 
1904 (Ex. 52). 
Finally, there were comments about 
whether the definition of ‘‘amputation’’ 
should require bone loss. The American 
Trucking Associations (ATA) 
commented that ‘‘the definition of an 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 9 ---
56148 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
‘amputation’ should require ‘loss of 
bone’ (Ex. 65); NPRA made a similar 
comment (Ex. 80). However, both David 
Bonauto M.D. M.P.H. (Ex. 56) and 
Letitia Davis Sc.D. Ed.M. (Ex. 84) 
provided data to support their 
comments that the definition of 
amputations should not require loss of 
bone because of the difficulties of 
identifying bone loss. 
David Bonauto’s data (Ex. 56) 
consisted of 3,000 claims with 
suspected amputation injuries in the 
Washington state fund workers 
compensation claims data for the period 
2006–2008; medical record review 
validated 1,885 of these claims as 
amputations. Bonauto is the 
occupational medicine physician and 
interim research director with the Safety 
and Health Research Assessment 
Program in the Washington State 
Department of Labor and Industries. He 
commented that ‘‘. . . about 90% had 
loss of the protruding body part from 
the injury. We could determine bone 
loss in nearly 3 of 4 cases; however, this 
could only be done retrospectively 
based on review of the medical records. 
Determination of the injury resulting in 
bone loss could not be done based on 
the initial report of injury. Most lower 
extremity amputations resulted from 
surgical treatment of the injury (e.g., 
surgical removal of a crushed foot) 
which often occurred after the initial 
injury event. More than two thirds of 
the injuries resulting in the loss of a 
protruding body part were not 
characterized as an ‘amputation’ on the 
initial report of accident by the health 
care provider. These cases were often 
characterized as contusions, lacerations, 
and fractures but ultimately resulted in 
the loss of a protruding body part . . . 
From these data, the proposed rule 
might benefit by defining amputations 
as ‘any injury resulting in the temporary 
or permanent loss of a protruding body 
part’. Due to the poor initial 
documentation of the injury, a 
requirement for bone loss in reports will 
lead to significant underreporting.’’ 
Similarly, Letitia Davis’s comments 
were based on amputation data 
collected by the Massachusetts 
Department of Public Health, with 696 
work-related amputations treated in 
Massachusetts hospitals in 2007–2008 
(Ex. 84). She commented that ‘‘[s]some 
amputations by definition include bone 
loss, e.g. amputation of finger, foot, 
hand, but if only the tip of a finger or 
toe is amputated, involvement of bone 
loss at time of injury is not necessarily 
apparent and involves determination by 
clinical review. Even upon clinical 
review, bone loss can be ambiguous. In 
our experience reviewing amputation 
cases reported by employers on OSHA 
logs and in workers’ compensation 
claim reports for amputations, bone loss 
is most often not specified. Thus we 
advise against bone loss as a criterion 
for reporting or at least specifying that 
cases with uncertain bone loss should 
be reported.’’ 
After careful consideration, OSHA 
finds that using the definition of 
amputation in the 2010 release (OIICS 
Version 2.0) of the BLS OIICS Manual 
will provide the greatest possible clarity 
and consistency. This change from the 
proposed rule responds to commenters 
who recommended that OSHA use the 
2010 release of the OIICS manual, as 
well as to commenters who 
recommended that the definition not 
include bone loss. Thus, Section 
1904.39(b)(11) of this final rule defines 
amputations as the traumatic loss of a 
limb or other external body part (see 
Section 1904.39(b)(11) of this final rule). 
According to this definition, an 
amputations include a part, such as a 
limb or appendage, that has been 
severed, cut off, amputated (either 
completely or partially); fingertip 
amputations with or without bone loss; 
medical amputations resulting from 
irreparable damage; and amputations of 
body parts that have since been 
reattached. Amputations do not include 
avulsions, enucleations, deglovings, 
scalpings, severed ears, or broken or 
chipped teeth. 
5. Required Reporting of Enucleations 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Should OSHA require 
the reporting of enucleations?’’ 
Several commenters responded that 
OSHA should not specifically require 
the reporting of enucleations (i.e., losses 
of an eye). The PRR commented that an 
enucleation ‘‘indicates a severe and 
traumatic injury has occurred to the 
employee’’ but that ‘‘[t]here is some 
question whether a severe injury leading 
to an enucleation would ever not fit 
under the definition of in-patient 
hospitalization . . . and thus it may be 
unnecessary to explicitly include this 
procedure’’ (Ex. 38). The PIA 
commented that ‘‘[PIA] does not feel 
that the reporting of enucleations would 
be appropriate . . . as the cause and 
circumstances surrounding these types 
of incidents are vast and may or may not 
be work related and in most cases 
within the printing industry would not 
be the result of a work related’’ event 
(Ex. 45). Ameren commented that 
‘‘Cases of . . . enucleation that do not 
result in hospitalization of the employee 
would not likely warrant OSHA’s 
examination’’ (Ex. 72). 
Other commenters responded that 
OSHA should specifically require the 
reporting of enucleations. NIOSH 
commented that ‘‘[a]lthough 
enucleations of the eye are an infrequent 
occurrence, reporting would serve as a 
sentinel event for identifying 
workplaces at risk for other preventable 
injuries including intraocular foreign 
bodies, penetrating eye injuries, and 
other eye injuries where eye protective 
equipment may not be used’’ (Ex. 66). 
The AFL–CIO commented that ‘‘the loss 
of an eye is an extremely serious injury 
that can have significant impact on a 
worker and leave him or her with a 
substantial impairment . . .[T]o the 
extent that an enucleation event does 
not result in an in-patient 
hospitalization, we believe OSHA 
should require employers to report all 
work-related enucleations to ensure that 
every enucleation incident is captured’’ 
(Ex. 69). The Building and Construction 
Trades Department (BTCD) of the AFL– 
CIO (Ex. 59), the UAW (Ex. 77), and the 
USW (Ex. 86) made similar comments, 
as did the TWU, which added that 
‘‘adding enucleations to the events 
requiring report would likely not result 
in greater burden to employers since 
one would anticipate most of these 
injuries to require, and be accounted for 
by requirements related to, in-patient 
hospitalizations’’ (Ex. 74). 
OSHA finds that the loss of an eye is 
a severe and significant injury and that 
a requirement to report such injuries, 
irrespective of in-patient 
hospitalization, can help identify 
workplaces where serious eye hazards 
are present. Based on comments 
submitted to the proposed rule, Section 
1904.39(a)(2) of this rule includes a new 
requirement for employers to report, 
within 24 hours, all losses of an eye 
resulting from a work-related incident. 
Section 1904.39(b)(6) provides that this 
reporting requirement applies only 
when the loss of the eye occurs within 
24 hours of the work-related incident. 
6. Number of Work-Related Incidents 
Involving In-Patient Hospitalizations, 
Including More Than 30 Days 
Afterwards 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Are there additional data 
or estimates available regarding the 
number of work-related incidents 
involving in-patient hospitalizations? Is 
there information available on how 
many work-related hospitalizations 
occur more than 30 days after the report 
of an injury or illness?’’ 
Comments on this question addressed 
three main topics. 
1. Work-related incidents involving 
in-patient hospitalization. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 10 ---
56149 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
2. Hospitalizations occurring more 
than 30 days after the report of the 
injury/illness. 
3. Amputations occurring more than 
30 days after a work-related incident. 
The third issue arises from the 
requirement in Section 1904.39(b)(6) of 
the proposed rule for requiring 
employers to report amputations that 
occurred up to 30 days after the work- 
related incident. 
On work-related incidents involving 
in-patient hospitalizations, commenters 
provided comments, as well as data and 
suggestions for data sources. 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
commented that even within a thirty- 
day limit, ‘‘the employee may be 
hospitalized after he or she is no longer 
employed by the employer which would 
significantly complicate an employer’s 
ability to know about the 
hospitalization’’ (Ex. 120). 
Stericycle commented that ‘‘[r]ather 
than use data from OSHA logs or 
Workers Compensation data to estimate 
single hospitalization reports, OSHA 
should have collected data from 
emergency responders to determine how 
many emergency calls were to the 
workplace’’ (Ex. 82). 
NIOSH provided data on the patients 
with occupational injuries or illnesses 
who were seen in the ED (Ex. 66): ‘‘The 
NIOSH NEISS-Work data provide 
national estimates of the number of 
patients treated in an ED and released, 
treated and transferred, treated and 
admitted, held for observation, and an 
estimate of patients that left without 
being seen or left against medical advice 
. . . For 2009, it is estimated that 
approximately 81,500 (3%) patients 
with occupational injuries or illnesses 
seen in the ED were either admitted or 
transferred and another 5,600 (0.2%) 
were held for observation. It is not 
known if those held for observation 
were admitted or released. These data 
do not include the length of time that 
passed between the injury or onset of 
illness and ED treatment.’’ 
Letitia Davis provided data on work- 
related in-patient hospitalizations in 
Massachusetts in FY 2008 (Ex. 84): 
‘‘There were 3,448 work-related 
hospitalizations in Massachusetts 
during October 2007-September 2008. 
The largest number was for injuries and 
poisonings (N=1595; 46%) followed by 
musculoskeletal disorders (N=1184; 
34%). Information about time between 
workplace incident and hospitalization 
was not available but information about 
admission type is informative. Notably, 
59% of work-related hospitalizations 
were for emergent or urgent care; 1,337 
(39%) were for elective procedures, 
most of which (N–935; 70%) were for 
musculoskeletal disorders.’’ 
On work-related hospitalizations 
occurring more than 30 days after the 
report of an injury or illness, David 
Bonauto provided data on 9,262 claims 
to the Washington State Fund workers 
compensation program that resulted in 
in-patient hospitalization from 2006– 
2008 (Ex. 56). He commented, ‘‘Of these 
hospitalizations, 36% occurred within 
one day following the occupational 
injury or illness event and nearly 50% 
occurred greater than 31 days following 
the occupational injury or illness. When 
differentiating the type of injury or 
illness using the primary ICD–9 code on 
the hospital bill, nearly 90% of all 
inpatient hospitalizations occurring 
within one day of the injury or illness 
event were billed with an injury or 
poisoning diagnosis as opposed to a 
disease diagnosis. Conversely, nearly 
93% of all hospitalizations occurring 31 
days after the injury or illness event had 
a disease diagnosis listed as the primary 
diagnosis on the bill.’’ 
In addition, there were comments 
about the proposed requirement to 
report in-patient hospitalizations 
occurring within 30 days of the 
incident. The Marshfield Clinic 
commented that ‘[t]he proposed changes 
also give a 30 day period where 
hospitalization needs to be reported. 
Since some surgeries require inpatient 
hospitalization; this will require that 
surgeries be reported that . . . are not 
related to an acute work injury. It would 
not appear that OSHA is interested in 
getting notified of every employee that 
may be hospitalized due to a need for 
a routine surgery that may be related to 
a work injury’’ (Ex. 15). The American 
Chemistry Council commented that the 
reporting requirement for in-patient 
hospitalization should ‘‘exclude 
hospitalization for chronic cases (such 
as carpal tunnel)’’ if ‘‘OSHA’s intent is 
to obtain information about acute 
injuries resulting from serious, incident- 
specific hazards’’; in addition, the final 
rule ‘‘should clarify how in-patient 
hospitalizations for treatment of acute 
injuries for which rehabilitation was 
unsuccessful (for example, a tendon 
injury in the hand or knee that 
ultimately requires surgery to repair, or 
back injuries that require later surgery) 
will be reported’’ (Ex. 76). Stericycle 
commented that ‘‘[the 30-day] 
timeframe may be too long as with 
strains and sprains, 2–4 weeks of 
physical therapy or other conservative 
treatment may be administered before 
an injured worker may determine 
surgery is the best option. Then if 
surgery and hospitalization occurs 
within the 30 days, the reporting 
requirement is triggered . . . After 30 
days, OSHA’s quick response may be 
too late and the employer may have 
already abated the hazard’’ (Ex. 82). 
On the other hand, the UAW 
commented that ‘‘[s]everal states, 
including Alaska, Oregon, and 
Washington have established a 30 day 
reporting period’’ (Ex. 77). 
For the third issue, related to the 
requirement in the proposed rule for 
reporting amputations occurring up to 
30 days after the work-related incident, 
the PIA commented that ‘‘if amputations 
are to be included as a reporting 
requirement, a reasonable scope should 
only require reporting if the amputation 
occurs at the time of the incident or at 
most, at the initial diagnosis of the 
attending medical provider’’ (Ex. 45). 
Both David Bonauto (Ex. 56) and 
Letitia Davis (Ex. 84) provided data on 
this issue. David Bonauto provided data 
on 1,885 validated amputations among 
Washington State Fund workers 
compensation claims with medical 
record review in 2006–2008 (Ex. 56). He 
found that 89% of amputations occurred 
at the time of injury, while 11% of the 
amputations resulted from surgery after 
the injury (including on the same day). 
However, while 92% of the 1,796 
amputations to upper extremities 
occurred at the time of injury, only 38% 
of the 91 amputations of lower 
extremities occurred at the time of 
injury. He commented that ‘‘specific 
provisions requiring reporting of late 
amputations will more effectively 
capture lower extremity amputations.’’ 
Letitia Davis provided data on work- 
related amputations treated in 
Massachusetts hospitals in 2007–2008 
(Ex. 84). She commented that ‘‘the great 
majority (92%) of work-related 
amputations involving hospital 
treatment were treated within one day 
of injury incident. Only 4.1% were 
treated more than 30 days after the 
injury incident. Again, OSHA might 
consider limiting reporting to 
amputations that occur within 24 hours 
of the precipitating incidents. These 
data suggest that in doing so, they 
would capture the great majority of the 
cases.’’ 
OSHA finds that limiting the 
reporting requirement to the 
hospitalizations, amputations, and 
losses of an eye most likely to require 
urgent or emergent care best serves 
OSHA’s purposes of surveillance and 
appropriate timely investigations of 
these events, while limiting the burden 
on employers. The final rule requires 
employers to report work-related in- 
patient hospitalizations, amputations, 
and losses of an eye only if the event 
occurs within twenty-four hours of the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 11 ---
56150 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
work-related incident (see 
§ 1904.39(b)(6)). 
7. Non-Telephone Methods of Reporting 
(Email, Fax, or Web-Based System) 
In the preamble to the proposed rule, 
OSHA asked: ‘‘Should OSHA allow 
reports to be made by means other than 
a telephone, such as by email, fax, or a 
Web-based system?’’ 
Many commenters supported 
additional options for reporting. For 
example, the Marshfield Clinic 
supported ‘‘[a] system that allows 
computer notification (either email or 
on-line)’’ (Ex. 15). Safety Compliance 
Services commented that ‘‘OSHA 
should allow for computerized reporting 
of incidents. However this capability 
needs to be standardized so that systems 
can report the information directly 
without requiring additional work or 
effort on the part of those reporting’’ 
(Ex. 29). Justin Barnes supported 
‘‘means such as email, fax, and a web- 
based system’’ (Ex. 34). The PIA 
commented that ‘‘OSHA should allow 
and make considerations of all means 
available with today’s technology 
including telephone, text, email, fax, or 
through a web-based system’’ (Ex. 45). 
The HDMA supported ‘‘alternative 
methods of reporting, such email, fax or 
Internet’’ (Ex. 55). Gruber Horst 
Johansen Hail Shank commented that 
‘‘it would be a great idea for OSHA to 
add the ability to report fatalities and 
applicable incidents through their Web 
site. Any system should include a 
verification and email confirmation of 
the report for employers to save and/or 
print out, so that they can demonstrate 
compliance. Development of 
smartphone apps by OSHA . . . would 
also assist employers to quickly report 
fatalities and applicable incidents’’ (Ex. 
60). The ATA commented that 
‘‘employers need flexibility in the 
method of reporting (i.e., phone calls, 
emails, faxes, and web based systems)’’ 
(Ex. 65). NIOSH recommended that 
OSHA ‘‘allow reports to be made by 
means other than telephone, such as by 
email, fax, or a web-based system’’ (Ex. 
66). Ameren commented that ‘‘a web- 
based system would allow employers to 
report while at the same time give 
OSHA an opportunity to capture data 
for automatic analysis and trending’’ 
(Ex. 72). The American Chemistry 
Council commented that ‘‘a mobile 
application, web or email based 
reporting system would be appropriate, 
including the application of formal 
controls to prevent false reporting’’ (Ex. 
76). The UAW commented that ‘‘OSHA 
should permit reporting by any 
communication method that exists now 
or may exist in the future, provided that 
the content of the report meets all 
existing OSHA requirements’’ (Ex. 77). 
Verizon supported ‘‘the addition of 
electronic means as an option for 
serious incident notification to OSHA, 
including email, facsimile and web- 
based reporting tools’’ (Ex. 78). NPRA 
recommended ‘‘electronic reporting in 
addition to phone, fax, and email’’ (Ex. 
80). Letitia Davis commented that 
‘‘OSHA should allow employers to 
report by means other than a telephone 
as long as confidentially of personal 
identifiable health information can be 
maintained, e.g. by confidential fax or 
secure electronic transmission’’ (Ex. 84). 
The Pacific Maritime Association 
commented that ‘‘[i]n addition to the 
800 number, an email, Web site 
reporting tool or similar application 
would create a time stamped record that 
both the employer and OSHA could find 
of use’’ (Ex. 100). The RILA suggested 
that ‘‘employers should be allowed 
flexibility to report whether it is via 
phone, email or fax’’ (Ex. 102). Ingalls 
Shipbuilding ‘‘urge[d] OSHA to expand 
reporting options to permit electronic 
transmissions, including fax, email or a 
web-based system’’ (Ex. 103); Newport 
News Shipbuilding made a similar 
comment (Ex. 125). The U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce commented that ‘‘OSHA 
should allow for reporting via email, 
interactive Web site, texting and faxing 
to provide maximum flexibility for 
employers and give them a record they 
can use to demonstrate compliance’’ 
(Ex. 120). 
On the other hand, a few commenters 
opposed additional options for 
reporting. The AFL–CIO commented 
that ‘‘the current requirement that 
permits reporting . . . only by reporting 
the incident via a telephone or in person 
should be retained in the final rule . . . 
We have concerns that passive 
approaches such as email, fax or a Web- 
based system, as opposed to an active 
oral reporting requirement, would not 
assure the agency that all of the required 
information is obtained from an 
employer and thus would result in 
incomplete reports’’ (Ex. 69). The USW 
‘‘strongly urge[d] OSHA to maintain the 
requirement that a phone call is 
necessary to that the information is 
reported as soon as possible to OSHA’’ 
(Ex. 86). USMWF commented that, for 
hospitalizations for acute, traumatic 
injuries and illnesses, ‘‘notifications 
should be made by telephone to ensure 
that OSHA receives all the key pieces of 
information regarding the incident’’ (Ex. 
93). 
OSHA agrees with the comments 
supporting additional options for 
reporting. However, OSHA also agrees 
with the comments on the importance of 
obtaining all of the required information 
from the employer. Therefore, Section 
1904.39(a)(3) of this final rule provides 
flexibility by allowing employers to 
choose among three options for 
reporting a work-related fatality, in- 
patient hospitalization, amputation, or 
loss of an eye to OSHA. 
First, as in the current regulation, an 
employer may report by telephone or in 
person to the OSHA Area Office that is 
nearest to the site of the incident. 
Second, as in the current regulation, 
an employer may report by telephone to 
the OSHA toll-free central telephone 
number, 1–800–321–OSHA (1–800– 
321–6742). 
Third, as a new option, an employer 
may report by electronic submission 
using a fatality/injury/illness reporting 
application that will be located on 
OSHA’s public Web site at 
www.osha.gov. The reporting 
application will include mandatory 
fields for the required information. If the 
report does not include the required 
information in the mandatory fields, the 
reporting application will not accept the 
report. The mandatory fields, as 
specified in Section 1904.39(b)(2), are 
the establishment name; the location of 
the work-related incident; the time of 
the work-related incident; the type of 
reportable event (i.e., fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of 
an eye); the number of injured 
employees; the names of the injured 
employees; the employer’s contact 
person and his or her phone number; 
and a brief description of the work- 
related incident. The public will be 
given the opportunity to comment on 
this new electronic submission option 
through the Paperwork Reduction Act 
(PRA) approval process when OSHA 
applies to reauthorize the information 
collection. 
Section 1904.39(b)(1) makes clear that 
if the Area Office is closed, the 
employer must report the work-related 
event by using either the OSHA toll-free 
central telephone number or the 
reporting application on OSHA’s public 
Web site. 
The final rule does not include 
options for reporting by email, fax, or 
text, because OSHA would not be able 
to ensure that employers who reported 
using these options provided all of the 
required information. 
8. Time Periods for Required Reporting 
In the NPRM, OSHA asked: ‘‘Are the 
reporting times of eight hours for 
fatalities, eight hours for in-patient 
hospitalizations, and 24 hours for 
amputations generally appropriate time 
periods for requiring reporting? What 
advantages or disadvantages would be 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 12 ---
56151 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
associated with these or any alternative 
time periods?’’ 
Comments primarily focused on four 
topics: 
1. The circumstances under which 
OSHA would consider that the 
employer knew, or should have known, 
about the reportable event; 
2. When the reporting clock would 
start—with the occurrence of the work- 
related incident, or with the occurrence 
of the reportable event; 
3. The appropriate reporting time 
period for in-patient hospitalizations; 
4. The appropriate reporting time 
period for other events employers 
would be required to report. 
For the circumstances under which 
OSHA would consider that the 
employer knew, or should have known, 
about the reportable event, Section 
1904.39(b)(7) of the proposed rule 
provided that if employers did not learn 
about a fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, or amputation right 
away, they would have been required to 
report it within the specified time 
period after the fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, or amputation was 
reported to ‘‘[the employer] or to any of 
[the employer’s] agent(s) or 
employee(s)’’. Commenters on this topic 
had two concerns. First, that OSHA 
might require employers to report 
events they did not know about. 
Second, that OSHA might unfairly 
penalize employers for not reporting 
events they did not know about. 
Related to an employer being required 
to report an event the employer did not 
know about, Morganite Industries 
commented that ‘‘[i]t is not clear that an 
appropriate member of management 
would have the information, allowing 
the required reporting to OSHA, just 
because any individual employee has 
that information. For example, the 
injured employee himself might know 
that he has been hospitalized, but his 
knowing it does not mean that anyone 
with authority or ability to make the 
report has that information’’ (Ex. 20). 
Ingalls Shipbuilding made a similar 
comment (Ex. 103), as did Dow 
Chemical (Ex. 64) and the Pacific 
Maritime Association (Ex. 100). Dow 
Chemical commented that ‘‘the ‘clock’ 
[should] start only when the incident, 
and the fact the worker was 
hospitalized, have been communicated 
to the employee’s supervisor or to other 
employees whose responsibilities and 
position qualify them to recognize the 
reporting requirement’’ (Ex. 64). The 
Pacific Maritime Association 
commented in addition that ‘‘[i]njuries 
should be reported to a direct supervisor 
or management. This is the only means 
in which an employer can be in 
knowledge of the injury’’ (Ex. 100). 
Related to an employer being 
penalized for not reporting an event the 
employer did not know about, the Joint 
Poultry Industry Safety and Health 
Council commented, ‘‘While we 
recognize the 8 hour provision is from 
the time the incident is reported to the 
employer, its agents or employees, we 
believe the interpretation of what 
constitutes notice, particularly notice to 
‘‘any of your agent(s) or employee(s)’’ 
will simply generate another cause of 
litigation if OSHA chooses to cite an 
employer for failing to meet the 8 hour 
time requirement’’ (Ex. 61). The ATA 
commented that ‘‘there is no provision 
for the Agency to NOT impute 
knowledge of an injury to an 
employer—i.e., ‘‘should have been 
aware’’—as in other OSHA rules. 
Companies may find themselves in a 
position of being expected to know 
about an employee’s private medical 
information or a hospitalization outside 
of the purview of the employer’’ (Ex. 
65); Fed Ex made a similar comment 
(Ex. 67). The National Association of 
Manufacturers (NAM) commented, ‘‘The 
employer may never know of the 
hospitalization until days or weeks 
later. Would the employer be in 
violation for not reporting this incident 
to OSHA when there was no knowledge 
of when the hospitalization took place? 
Additionally, a worker could be injured 
on a weekend or overnight shift and the 
employer is not notified of the worker’s 
hospitalization until the next business 
day. Would that employer be in 
violation for not reporting the incident 
within eight hours?’’ (Ex. 71). The 
Pacific Maritime Association (Ex. 100) 
and the Shipbuilders Council of 
America (Ex. 104) made similar 
comments. To address this concern, 
Verallia suggested that the rule be 
amended to require notification ‘‘within 
[the specified time period] of the 
employer becoming aware’’ of the 
reportable event (Ex. 91). 
OSHA acknowledges commenters’ 
concern about defining employer 
notification to include reporting to ‘‘any 
of [the employer’s] employee(s)’’. 
Therefore, this rule removes this 
provision. Under Section 1904.39(b)(7) 
of the final rule, employers are required 
to report within the specified time 
period after the fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of 
an eye is reported to the employer or to 
any of the employer’s agent(s). 
OSHA does not agree with the 
comments about employers being 
unfairly penalized for not reporting 
hospitalizations that they did not know 
about. 
First, the current regulation, the 
proposed rule, and the final rule all 
have a specific provision for employers 
who do not know about an in-patient 
hospitalization or other reportable 
event. Under the current regulation, if 
an employer does not learn about a 
reportable incident right away, the 
employer must make the report within 
eight hours of the time the incident is 
reported to the employer (see Section 
1904.39(b)(7)). Under the proposed rule, 
if the employer did not learn about a 
reportable incident right away, the 
employer would have to make the report 
within eight hours for a fatality or in- 
patient hospitalization, or twenty-four 
hours for an amputation, of the time the 
incident was reported to the employer 
(see proposed Section 1904.39(b)(7)). 
Under the final rule, if the employer 
does not learn about a reportable event 
(fatality, in-patient hospitalization, 
amputation, or loss of an eye) right 
away, the employer must make the 
report within eight hours for a fatality, 
or twenty-four hours for an in-patient 
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of 
an eye, of the time the event is reported 
to the employer (see Section 
1904.39(b)(7) of the final rule). 
Second, as discussed above, 
employers at over 1.3 million 
establishments in six states are already 
subject to the requirement to report in- 
patient hospitalizations of fewer than 
three employees. If these employers 
were being penalized for not reporting 
events they did not know about, it 
seems likely that at least a few of them, 
or their industry organizations, would 
have submitted comments on this issue 
during this rulemaking. Instead, the 
only non-hypothetical comment 
received by OSHA on this issue came 
from one of these six states, which 
specifically commented that 
‘‘[e]xperience has established that 
Kentucky’s requirements do not exert an 
increase in the burden of regulatory 
compliance’’ (Ex. 52). 
OSHA therefore concludes that the 
requirement in the final rule to report 
in-patient hospitalizations will not 
result in an unfair penalty for 
employers. Under the final rule, as in 
the current regulation, employers are 
only required to report work-related 
events that have been reported to them 
or their agent(s). 
For the issue in the proposed rule of 
whether the reporting clock would start 
with the occurrence of the work-related 
incident or with the occurrence of the 
reportable event (fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, or amputation), the 
PRR, the IADC, Gruber Hurst Johansen 
Hail Shank, NAM, and Verizon 
requested clarification (Exs. 38, 39, 60, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 13 ---
56152 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
71, and 78). To address this issue, 
OSHA has revised the text in Section 
1904.39(a)(1) and (a)(2) of the final rule 
to make clear that, consistent with 
OSHA’s current reporting regulation in 
Section 1904.39, the reporting clock 
starts with the occurrence of the 
reportable event. Section 1904.39(b)(7) 
also provides instruction on when the 
reporting clock starts to run in 
situations where the employer or the 
employer’s agent(s) does not learn about 
the reportable event (fatality, in-patient 
hospitalization, amputation, or loss of 
an eye) right away. 
For example, if an employee suffers a 
work-related injury (the work-related 
incident) at 9:00 a.m., and dies from that 
injury at 10:00 a.m., and the employer 
or the employer’s agent(s) learn of the 
fatality (the reportable event) at 10:00 
a.m., then the employer would be 
required to report the fatality (the 
reportable event) to OSHA within eight 
hours of the fatality (the reportable 
event)—i.e., 6:00 p.m. Similarly, if an 
employee is fatally injured as the result 
of a work-related incident at 8:30 p.m. 
on Monday, but the employer or 
employer’s agent(s) do not learn of the 
fatality (the reportable event) until 9:00 
a.m. the next day (Tuesday), then the 
employer would be required to report 
the fatality (the reportable event) to 
OSHA within eight hours of learning of 
the fatality (the reportable event)—i.e., 
by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday. Also, if an 
employee suffers a work-related injury 
(the work-related incident) at 11:00 a.m. 
on Thursday and is hospitalized as an 
in-patient, as a result of that injury, at 
3:00 p.m., and the employer or the 
employer’s agent(s) learn of the in- 
patient hospitalization for the injury at 
3:00 p.m., then the employer would be 
required to report the in-patient 
hospitalization (the reportable event) 
within 24 hours of the in-patient 
hospitalization (the reportable event)— 
i.e., by 3:00 p.m. on Friday. 
This would also be the case if the 
employer needs time to determine 
whether a specific incident is work- 
related. For example, if an incident 
leads to an employee’s death at 9:00 
a.m. on Monday, but the employer does 
not have enough information to make a 
work-relatedness determination until 
11:00 a.m. on Monday, then the 
employer would be required to report 
the fatality (the reportable event) within 
8 hours of learning that the fatality was 
due to a work-related incident—i.e., by 
7:00 p.m. on Monday). The final rule 
states that if the employer does not learn 
right away that the reportable event 
(fatality, in-patient hospitalization, 
amputation, or loss of an eye) was the 
result of a work-related incident, then 
the employer must make the report to 
OSHA within the following time period 
after the employer or any of the 
employer’s agent(s) learn that the 
reportable event was the result of a 
work-related incident: Eight (8) hours 
for a fatality, and twenty-four (24) hours 
for an in-patient hospitalization, an 
amputation, or a loss of an eye. (see 
Section 1904.39(b)(8)) 
For the issue of the appropriate 
reporting time period for in-patient 
hospitalizations, OSHA received many 
comments that the proposed eight-hour 
reporting period for in-patient 
hospitalizations was too short. The 
Marshfield Clinic commented that ‘‘an 
employer is normally going to know 
immediately’’ about a fatality and 
‘‘probably would also know’’ about the 
hospitalization of three or more 
employees’’, but that ‘‘[t]his is not 
necessarily the case for the 
hospitalization of an individual 
employee’’ (Ex. 15). IBM commented 
that ‘‘[i]t would be difficult for us to be 
compliant with reporting any in-patient 
hospitalizations within eight hours, 
especially with the travelling employee, 
time zone issues, language barriers, 
communication issues’’ (Ex. 22). Apogee 
Enterprises commented that eight hours 
may not be enough time for an employer 
to determine work-relatedness, that an 
employer may not find out about the 
hospitalization if the employee does not 
go to the hospital from work, and that 
the privacy of medical information ‘‘can 
make it very difficult for the employer 
to find out the cause of a 
hospitalization, especially in the 
proposed timeframe’’ (Ex. 40). The 
HDMA commented that ‘‘. . . many 
circumstances will arise where . . . the 
full determination of the employee’s 
condition has not been determined 
within eight hours because the 
employee was admitted to the hospital 
for a variety of reasons some of which 
may or may not be work-related’’ (Ex. 
55). Ameren commented that ‘‘[t]he 
determination of work-relationship for a 
case involving a single hospitalization 
may not be immediately obvious and 
could take more than 8 hours to be 
resolved’’ (Ex. 72). Verizon commented 
that ‘‘[i]t is not practical to expect all 
employers to be able to notify OSHA 
within eight hours of an employee’s 
admission into a hospital with a work- 
related condition’’, especially for 
employers ‘‘whose employees often 
work alone or with a co-worker at off- 
site locations and at hours other than 
normal business hours’’ (Ex. 78). The 
Pacific Maritime Association 
commented that ‘‘the employer may not 
have all of the necessary facts within 
eight hours . . . this is too tight a 
deadline and is a recipe for false or 
misleading information to OSHA’’ (Ex. 
100). The American Foundry Society 
commented that ‘‘the proposed 8-hour 
time frame does not offer a realistic time 
frame,’’ due to ‘‘circumstances 
including patient privacy and 
communication delays between a 
patient and employer or medical 
provider and employer’’ (Ex. 101). The 
American Supply Association 
commented that ‘‘the shift to an 8-hour 
reporting requirement . . . may 
interfere with an employer who is also 
tending to the employee’s injury during 
this time. The uncertainties placed on 
the employer, in particular, during a 
period when they are addressing 
employee safety is overly burdensome’’ 
(Ex. 111); the Sheet Metal and Air 
Conditioning Contractors National 
Association (SMACNA) made a similar 
comment (Ex. 122). The ARTBA 
commented that ‘‘eight hours is 
unrealistic as it may be difficult to 
quickly ascertain the root cause of the 
injury’’ (Ex. 114). 
OSHA also received comments 
proposing alternate time periods, 
including 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, 
and five days. Morganite Industries 
commented that ‘‘it is reasonable to 
expect that within 24 hours 
management will be made aware that an 
in-patient hospitalization has occurred. 
It is then reasonable to believe that 
reporting to OSHA is feasible within 
that same 24 hours’’ (Ex. 20). Whirlpool 
Corporation, the IADC, the HDMA, the 
American Chemistry Council, Verizon, 
the Pennsylvania Independent Oil and 
Gas Association (PIOGA), RILA, and 
Ingalls Shipbuilding made similar 
comments (Exs. 31, 39, 55, 76, 78, 89, 
102, and 103). 
NPRA recommended ‘‘that OSHA at a 
minimum increase the reporting time to 
48 hours to allow the medical facility 
time to treat the injured, if necessary, 
determine the need for hospitalization 
and advise the employer’’ (Ex. 80). 
Kentucky commented that ‘‘[e]xperience 
has proven that the reporting of a 
hospitalization after eight (8) hours has 
passed . . . but before seventy-two (72) 
hours have elapsed, is not detrimental 
to ensuring that a prompt investigation 
is initiated, if needed, to ensure the 
prevention of additional injury or 
illness’’ (Ex. 52). Fed Ex similarly 
supported a 72-hour time period, 
commenting that ‘‘[s]eventy-two hours 
would give an employer adequate time 
to gather and verify the information 
necessary to make an accurate report to 
OSHA, and it is soon enough after an 
accident for OSHA to make a 
meaningful investigation’’ (Ex. 67). 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 14 ---
56153 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
Dow Chemical recommended that ‘‘if 
the Agency decides to require reporting 
of every hospitalization, the deadline for 
reporting should be (preferably) three 
business days, or (at the very tightest) 
the following business day after the 
employer learns both that there was a 
hospitalization, and that the injury was 
work-related’’ (Ex. 64). The Duke 
University Health System recommended 
‘‘a reporting period of five days if OSHA 
is to achieve its goal of this regulation 
presenting only a ‘relatively minor 
burden’ for employers’’ (Ex. 63). 
On the other hand, USMWF 
commented that ‘‘8 hours is far too long 
a time period. OSHA should change its 
regulation to require an employer to 
immediately notify federal or State 
OSHA of a fatality or serious incidents. 
The Mine Safety and Health 
Administration’s (MSHA) regulations 
require employers to notify the agency 
of serious incidents within 15 minutes. 
OSHA should adopt equivalent 
requirements. We believe that California 
OSHA requires immediate reporting and 
Utah OSHA has a 1-hour reporting 
requirement’’ (Ex. 93). 
In addition, multiple commenters 
recommended requiring the same 
reporting time period of eight hours for 
non-fatal reportable events (in-patient 
hospitalizations, amputations, and 
losses of an eye) as for fatalities. The 
Building and Construction Trades 
Department of the AFL–CIO commented 
that ‘‘[t]he move to a single reporting 
time frame would also benefit OSHA 
and employers. In the case of OSHA, the 
move to 8 hours for all serious incidents 
would provide the agency with more 
timely information on which to base 
decisions. For employers, the use of one 
reporting timeframe would simplify the 
reporting process’’ (Ex. 59). The AFL– 
CIO, the TWU, the UAW, and the UFCW 
made similar comments (Exs. 69, 74, 77, 
and 81). 
OSHA acknowledges the commenters’ 
concern about the eight-hour reporting 
time for in-patient hospitalizations in 
the proposed rule. Accordingly, Section 
1904.39(a)(2) of the final rule requires 
employers to report in-patient 
hospitalizations within 24 hours of 
learning of the in-patient hospitalization 
due to a work-related incident. Note 
that, as discussed below, this will 
simplify the reporting process by 
requiring a single reporting period (24 
hours) for all of the non-fatal events that 
employers are required to report. Note 
also that, because the reporting time 
period for in-patient hospitalizations 
does not begin until the employee has 
been formally admitted to the in-patient 
service of a hospital or clinic for care or 
treatment (see § 1904.39(b)(8)), the 
reporting requirement will not interfere 
with the employer’s efforts to provide 
the proper care for the employee whose 
eventual in-patient hospitalization the 
employer will be required to report. 
For the appropriate reporting time 
periods for other events employers 
would be required to report, many of the 
same comments about reporting time 
periods for in-patient hospitalizations 
applied. 
However, OSHA did receive some 
specific comments as well. For 
amputations, Dow Chemical commented 
that ‘‘if notification for amputations is 
ultimately required, the deadline should 
be the end of the next business day after 
the injury is classified as an amputation, 
rather than within 24 hours. This would 
facilitate compliance, because there 
would be greater certainty that the 
expert personnel who understand the 
reporting requirement would be 
available. In addition, it would allow for 
an accurate determination that the 
injury is, in fact, an amputation’’ (Ex. 
64). The NPRA recommended a 
reporting time period of 48 hours (Ex. 
80). 
For amputations and losses of an eye, 
the USMWF commented that ‘‘[t]he 
reporting should be made by the 
employer no later than 24 hours after 
the employer learns that the amputation 
or eye loss occurred’’ (Ex. 93). 
OSHA finds that a reporting time 
period of 24 hours for amputations and 
losses of an eye will simplify the 
reporting process by requiring a single 
reporting period (24 hours) for all of the 
non-fatal events that employers are 
required to report. Section 
1904.39(a)(2)) of this rule requires 
employers to report amputations and 
losses of an eye to OSHA within 24 
hours. 
Other Issues Raised by Commenters 
OSHA received multiple comments 
that the Agency does not have enough 
resources to be able to collect, track, and 
use the additional data from the new 
reporting requirements for in-patient 
hospitalizations of one or two 
employees, amputations, and losses of 
an eye. For example, Rexnord Industries 
commented that ‘‘[t]here are concerns 
with the ongoing budget debates and 
whether or not OSHA will be able to 
give the appropriate attention that is 
needed to the new information to drive 
the needed results’’ (Ex. 28). The Tree 
Care Industry Association commented 
that ‘‘we do not understand how OSHA 
would handle the additional workload 
. . . How would OSHA handle the call 
volume when it increases from 4,600 to 
210,000 calls per year?’’ (Ex. 37). The 
National Safety Council commented that 
‘‘[s]ome members have also expressed 
concerns regarding OSHA staffing 
constraints and the ability of the agency 
to process and utilize the increased 
number of submissions to the agency 
. . .’’ (Ex. 58). Gruber Hurst Johansen 
Hail Shank commented that ‘‘[t]he 
proposed rule would require OSHA to 
spend 52,682.25 hours to simply receive 
and record the reports . . . This does 
not factor in the countless hours that 
would also be added by the increased 
amount of inspections OSHA would 
presumably initiate under the proposed 
rule’’ (Ex. 60). 
Mercer ORC HSE Networks 
commented that they have ‘‘serious 
reservations about whether OSHA has 
the capacity or resources to evaluate and 
utilize the new collected data on an 
ongoing basis in a way that would 
significantly improve the targeting of its 
resources or, at the end of the day, 
would result in improved worker safety 
and health’’ (Ex. 68). The American 
Chemistry Council commented that 
‘‘OSHA has not demonstrated . . . how 
the Administration will utilize these 
new data with its finite resources to 
target unsafe workplaces’’ (Ex. 76). 
Verizon commented on its concern ‘‘that 
the simple number of notifications will 
overwhelm OSHA’s resources . . .’’ (Ex. 
78). The National Grain and Feed 
Association commented that ‘‘this will 
not be a prudent use of OSHA’s existing 
resources since it will add another time- 
consuming task to OSHA staff and 
prevent them from dealing with the 
Agency’s three core functions that 
include: 1) programmed inspections; 2) 
investigation of fatalities; and 3) 
responding to employee complaints’’ 
(Ex. 96); the Shipbuilders Council of 
America and the Corn Refiners 
Association made similar comments 
(Exs. 104, 109). 
The NAHB commented that it ‘‘does 
not seem feasible for OSHA staff to 
investigate each and every in-patient 
hospitalization given the Agency’s 
limited resources’’ (Ex. 113). The 
ARTBA commented that they ‘‘question 
whether OSHA is prepared to receive 
the additional information stream that 
will be generated from the proposed 
changes’’ (Ex. 114). The U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce commented that ‘‘there is 
every reason to believe that the 
significantly increased level of reporting 
[the expansion of the hospitalization 
reporting requirement] will generate 
will overwhelm OSHA’s limited 
resources . . .’’ (Ex. 120). 
OSHA agrees that it would 
overwhelm the resources of Federal 
OSHA and the State Plan programs if 
the Agency conducted an inspection of 
every workplace reporting a serious 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 15 ---
56154 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
occupational event under this rule. 
However, OSHA does not intend to do 
this. Rather, OSHA will conduct report- 
related inspections only at workplaces 
where reports indicate that an Agency 
inspection to remediate hazards may be 
warranted. OSHA will conduct other 
interventions at workplaces where 
reports indicate that an Agency 
inspection to remediate hazards is not 
warranted. In either case, the overall 
objective is for the reports to trigger 
activities that lead to hazard abatement. 
OSHA will develop internal guidance 
for determining whether to inspect or to 
conduct a different kind of intervention 
after receiving a report of an in-patient 
hospitalization of one or two workers, 
an amputation, or a loss of an eye. In 
either case, OSHA follow-up with the 
employer is essential. Follow-up may be 
done via email, phone, or fax, with 
regular reminders and deadlines. These 
interventions will require OSHA to 
reallocate some of its inspection 
resources. However, OSHA believes that 
ensuring the abatement of hazards that 
resulted in serious injury or illness 
justifies these changes. 
This approach is similar to OSHA’s 
current approach for investigating 
fatalities and hospitalizations of three or 
more employees, as well as OSHA’s 
approach for targeting inspections to the 
highest-hazard workplaces. At present, 
OSHA does not inspect each workplace 
with a report, per Section 1904.39 of the 
current regulation, of a fatality or the 
hospitalization of three or more 
employees. Rather, OSHA uses the 
information in the initial report to 
decide whether or not the Agency 
should investigate the event. OSHA will 
continue to use this approach under this 
final rule. 
Similarly, OSHA does not currently 
try to inspect all 7.5 million 
establishments in the country. Rather, 
OSHA has a priority system designed to 
allocate available OSHA inspection 
resources as effectively as possible to 
ensure that the maximum feasible 
protection is provided to working men 
and women. Case reports of sentinel 
safety and health events, such as 
fatalities and hospitalizations, support 
OSHA’s application of this priority 
system and will continue to do so under 
this final rule. 
Further, OSHA notes that six states, 
accounting for over 1.3 million 
establishments (18% of the national 
total) and 19.4 million paid employees 
(17% of the national total), already 
require employers to report in-patient 
hospitalizations of fewer than three 
employees, evidently without 
overwhelming the resources of their 
programs or compromising their 
abilities to conduct targeted inspections, 
respond to worker complaints, and 
investigate fatalities. Indeed, one of 
these states, Kentucky, specifically 
commented that ‘‘[t]he Kentucky OSH 
program believes its requirements 
support the prevention of additional 
injuries or illnesses, effectively direct 
OSH program resources, and reduce the 
state’s occupational injury and illness 
rates’’ (Ex. 52). In addition, Kentucky 
also commented that ‘‘[i]t is important 
to note that neither OSHA’s present 
reporting requirements or proposed 
rule, nor Kentucky’s state specific 
reporting requirements, compel OSHA 
or Kentucky to investigate every 
reported hospitalization or amputation 
. . . Not all hospitalizations or 
amputations reported to [Kentucky’s] 
Division of Compliance are 
investigated’’ (Ex. 52). 
OSHA also received multiple 
comments about the Preliminary 
Economic Analysis (PEA). 
The SBA–OA commented that OSHA 
should ‘‘consider whether its wage rate 
assumption is valid for many small 
businesses.’’ The PEA uses the 
assumption that reporting will be 
performed by a human resources 
specialist with a compensation cost of 
$40.04 per hour, but ‘‘many small 
businesses do not employ such 
personnel and it is often the small 
business owner or other senior person 
who conducts these activities’’ (Ex. 94). 
The Pacific Maritime Association 
commented that ‘‘private sector workers 
. . . already work 40-hour weeks . . . 
[Unless] OSHA intends on removing 
another set of duties imposed by 
regulations to free time and make it 
available to perform these new 
recordkeeping tasks[, w]hen imposing 
new regulations, OSHA should always 
estimate that the work performed will 
have to be completed at the overtime 
rate of pay (of time and a half)’’ (Ex. 
100). 
OSHA’s response to these comments 
is in Section V of this supplementary 
information. 
OSHA received multiple comments 
about the PEA’s estimate of the time 
required to report single in-patient 
hospitalizations and amputations. Dow 
Chemical Company commented that the 
15 minutes ‘‘may perhaps account for 
the time spent on the telephone, but it 
does not include all the people who 
need to participate in, or be notified of, 
the incident and the upcoming 
notification to OSHA’’ (Ex. 64). The 
ATA commented that ‘‘[t]he [time] 
multiplier should, according to our 
members, be 0.5 [hours] instead of 0.25, 
to accurately reflect current time spent 
on this task’’ (Ex. 65); Fed Ex made a 
similar comment (Ex. 67). Mercer ORC 
HSE Networks commented that ‘‘OSHA 
focuses strictly on the amount of time it 
takes an individual to ‘pick up a phone’ 
and make the report to OSHA. This is 
an unduly narrow view of the impact of 
the proposal on employers’’ (Ex. 68). 
NUCA commented that ‘‘OSHA has 
significantly underestimated the 
economic impact of obtaining injury 
information on a construction site 
which does not necessarily have an 
office. First, field personnel must stop 
what they are doing to collect 
information, which must then be 
transmitted to the company office where 
it must be reviewed and recorded. 
Along with the proposed additional 
requirements to report to OSHA, which 
could require hours of investigation to 
prepare for, the total time would easily 
exceed a mere 15 minutes’’ (Ex. 110). 
In addition, OSHA received several 
comments that the PEA’s time 
assumption did not include the time 
required to adjust data systems to the 
new reporting requirements. For 
example, the American Trucking 
Association commented that ‘‘[t]aking 
into consideration the sophisticated 
internal systems that larger motor 
carries may use to report inpatient 
hospitalization and amputations . . . 
ATA estimates—again, based on 
member experience—that an additional 
150–175 hours may be required per 
employer, something that is not 
reflected in the Agency cost estimate’’ 
(Ex. 65). Fed Ex made a similar 
comment (Ex. 67). 
Finally, OSHA received several 
comments that the PEA’s time 
assumption did not include employer 
responses to the inspections that might 
follow the reports. For example, the 
Tree Care Industry Association 
commented that ‘‘OSHA claims that the 
additional data-gathering would be 
restricted to phone interviews, with a 
relatively minor additional reporting 
burden estimated to be an average of 15 
minutes per reported incident. 
However, with the proposed rule in 
place there would be nothing to prevent 
the Agency from performing on-site 
investigations of reported accidents . . . 
Obviously to superimpose an OSHA on- 
site investigation on to the post-accident 
investigations that companies already 
perform as part of their safety procedure 
creates a significant additional burden 
for employers’’ (Ex. 37); the Dow 
Chemical Company and Fed Ex made 
similar comments (Exs. 64, 67). 
OSHA’s responses to these comments 
are in Section V of this supplementary 
information. 
The HDMA commented that OSHA 
should ‘‘make allowance for outstanding 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 16 ---
56155 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
circumstances—for instance, the 
proposed rule does not provide any 
information on what allowances can be 
made for a disaster type of situation 
where other issues arise that need to be 
addressed that would impede the 
employer’s ability to report to OSHA, 
due to natural disasters such as snow 
storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding, 
etc. or manmade such as electrical 
failures, fires, etc. that the employer 
must immediately focus on the disaster 
and its implications for public safety 
reasons’’ (Ex. 55). 
The Agency notes that previous 
OSHA rulemakings on reporting of 
fatalities and in-patient hospitalizations 
have not explicitly made allowance for 
emergencies and disasters, but that 
OSHA has nonetheless taken such 
circumstances into account when they 
occurred. OSHA will continue to do so 
under the final rule. 
The NAHB commented that ‘‘OSHA’s 
proposal is not consistent with 
Executive Order 13563, ‘Improving 
Regulation and Regulatory Review,’ ’’ 
because ‘‘[n]othing in OSHA’s proposal 
indicates how the rule is intended to 
streamline regulatory requirements and 
reduced burdens on industry’’ and 
because the Agency ‘‘should consider 
the impacts of this proposal on small 
businesses and consider conducting 
additional outreach before moving 
forward’’ (Ex. 113). The SBA–OA (Ex. 
94), RILA (Ex. 102), and the ARTBA (Ex. 
114) made similar comments. 
Executive Order 13563 requires 
regulatory agencies to consider the 
effect of new regulations on economic 
growth, competitiveness, and job 
creation. OSHA notes that, as discussed 
below in Section V–E, Economic 
Impacts, the compliance costs for each 
affected firm are too small to have any 
significant economic impacts, including 
impacts on economic growth, 
competitiveness, and job creation. 
Additionally, the final rule includes a 
new option for employers to report 
fatalities and other reportable events 
through OSHA’s public Web site, which 
should make it easier for employers to 
fulfill their reporting obligations. Also, 
under the final rule, the time for 
reporting all non-fatality reportable 
events (i.e., in-patient hospitalizations, 
amputations, and losses of an eye) to 
OSHA is 24 hours. For in-patient 
hospitalizations, this is a change from 
the proposed rule, and it should reduce 
the reporting burden on small 
employers. Therefore, the Agency 
believes the reporting requirements in 
this rulemaking are consistent with 
Executive Order 13563. 
Mercer ORC HSE Networks 
commented that they ‘‘believe that [the 
proposed rule] is emblematic of a larger 
problem; that the national system for 
collecting and compiling data on 
occupational injuries and illnesses is 
really a hodge-podge of disparate data 
requirements developed by different 
Agencies to meet their own particular 
needs . . . Consequently . . . we have 
no real handle on the occurrence (or 
prevalence) of occupational illness in 
the United States, and many even 
question the accuracy of the data we use 
to track injuries and acute health 
conditions . . . The last study of the 
national injury and illness data system 
was conducted over two decades ago by 
the National Academy of Sciences. 
Although all of the findings were not 
implemented, the 1987 report, Counting 
Injuries and Illnesses in the Workplace, 
served as the basis for a major overhaul 
of the BLS safety and health statistical 
programs. Mercer ORC Networks 
believes that we are overdue for another 
systems-wide review . . . The initial 
cost for such a review might seem high 
given the current budget climate. 
However, we are convinced that the 
investment would be ‘drop in the 
bucket’ compared to the potential 
savings in program efficiencies and 
improvements in prevention 
effectiveness’’ (Ex. 68). 
OSHA agrees with Mercer ORC’s 
assessment that improvement can and 
should be made to the current 
occupational injury and illness 
collecting and reporting system. OSHA 
believes this rulemaking addresses some 
of the system shortfalls by expanding 
the data that are collected (e.g., in- 
patient hospitalizations, amputations, 
and losses of an eye) and by readjusting 
the scope of the regulation to cover 
industries that will benefit from the 
availability and use of the injury and 
illness information captured on the 
recordkeeping forms. In addition to this 
rulemaking, the Agency has taken other 
steps to address system shortfalls 
including increased enforcement and 
outreach activities. BLS and NIOSH 
have also taken positive steps to identify 
and address gaps in collecting and 
reporting on occupational injury and 
illness data. Finally, as stated above, 
OSHA is planning a new re-examination 
of the Agency’s recordkeeping 
regulations. Improvement of the system 
is an ongoing effort, and OSHA will 
consider Mercer ORC’s 
recommendation. 
D. The Final Rule 
The final rule is similar to the 
proposed rule in requiring employers to 
report all work-related fatalities, in- 
patient hospitalizations, and 
amputations. However, there are also 
several differences from the proposed 
rule. The differences include the time 
periods for reporting the event, the time 
periods between the work-related 
incident and the reportable event, 
definitions, and reporting options. In 
addition, the final rule adds work- 
related losses of an eye to the list of 
events that employers are required to 
report to OSHA. 
Under the final rule, employers must 
report the following events: 
1. Each fatality resulting from a work- 
related incident, within 8 hours of the 
death. This requirement applies to all 
fatalities occurring within 30 days of a 
work-related incident. See 
§ 1904.39(a)(1) and (b)(6). This is the 
same as the current regulation and the 
proposed rule. 
2. Each in-patient hospitalization 
resulting from a work-related incident, 
within 24 hours of the hospitalization. 
This requirement applies to all in- 
patient hospitalizations occurring 
within 24 hours of a work-related 
incident. See § 1904.39(a)(2) and (b)(6). 
Under the proposed rule, employers 
would have been required to report all 
in-patient hospitalizations within 8 
hours, for hospitalizations occurring 
within 30 days of a work-related 
incident. Under the current regulation, 
employers are required to report, within 
8 hours, in-patient hospitalizations of 
three or more employees, for 
hospitalizations occurring within 30 
days of a work-related incident. 
3. Each amputation resulting from a 
work-related incident, within 24 hours 
of the amputation. This requirement 
applies to all amputations occurring 
within 24 hours of a work-related 
incident. See § 1904.39(a)(2) and (b)(6). 
Under the proposed rule, employers 
would have been required to report all 
amputations within 24 hours, for 
amputations occurring within 30 days of 
a work-related incident. Under the 
current regulation, employers are not 
required to report amputations. 
4. Each loss of an eye resulting from 
a work-related incident, within 24 hours 
of the loss of an eye. This requirement 
applies to all losses of an eye occurring 
within 24 hours of a work-related 
incident. See § 1904.39(a)(2) and (b)(6). 
The proposed rule would not have 
required employers to report losses of 
an eye, and the current regulation also 
does not require them to do so. 
Other major differences between the 
final rule and the proposed rule include 
the following: 
1. In the final rule, the regulatory text 
provides an explicit definition of in- 
patient hospitalization (see 
§ 1904.39(b)(9) and (b)(10)). In the 
proposed rule, the regulatory text did 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2
--- page 17 ---
56156 Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 181 / Thursday, September 18, 2014 / Rules and Regulations 
not include a definition. The final rule 
defines in-patient hospitalization as a 
formal admission to the in-patient 
service of a hospital or clinic for care or 
treatment. Employers do not have to 
report in-patient hospitalizations that 
involve only observation and/or 
diagnostic testing. 
2. In the final rule, the definition of 
amputations comes from the 2010 
release (OIICS Version 2.0) of the BLS 
OIICS Manual (see § 1904.39(b)(11)). In 
the proposed rule, the definition of 
amputations came from the 2007 release 
of the BLS OIICS Manual. The final rule 
defines amputations as the traumatic 
loss of a limb or other external body 
part. Amputations include a part, such 
as a limb or appendage, that has been 
severed, cut off, amputated (either 
completely or partially); fingertip 
amputations with or without bone loss; 
medical amputations resulting from 
irreparable damage; amputations of 
body parts that have since been 
reattached. Amputations do not include 
avulsions, enucleations, deglovings, 
scalpings, severed ears, or broken or 
chipped teeth. 
3. In the final rule, employers have 
three options for reporting the fatality, 
in-patient hospitalization, amputation, 
or loss of an eye (see § 1904.39(a)(3) and 
(b)(1)): (1) by telephone or in person to 
the OSHA Area Office that is nearest to 
the site of the incident; (2) by telephone 
to the OSHA toll-free central telephone 
number, 1–800–321–OSHA (1–800– 
321–6742); (3) by electronic submission 
using the fatality/injury/illness 
reporting application located on 
OSHA’s public Web site at 
www.osha.gov. Under both the proposed 
rule and the current regulation, only the 
first two options were available. The 
electronic submission option is new for 
the final rule. 
4. In the final rule, if employers do 
not learn about a reportable fatality, in- 
patient hospitalization, amputation, or 
loss of an eye when the event happens, 
they must report to OSHA within a 
specified time period after the event has 
been reported to the employer or to any 
of the employer’s agent(s) (see 
§ 1904.39(b)(7)). Under both the 
proposed rule and the current 
regulation, the specified time period 
began after a report to the employer or 
to any of the employer’s agent(s) or 
employee(s). 
Overall, the final rule will provide 
OSHA with more information about 
serious workplace injuries and illnesses. 
This information will allow OSHA to 
carry out timely investigations of these 
events as appropriate, leading to the 
mitigation of related hazards and the 
prevention of further events at the 
workplaces where the events occurred. 
This information will also help OSHA 
establish a comprehensive database that 
the Agency, researchers, and the public 
can use to identify hazards related to 
reportable events and to identify 
industries and processes where these 
hazards are prevalent. Finally, this 
information will be obtained cost- 
effectively, with a relatively minimal 
estimated average burden on employers 
of 30 minutes per reported incident. 
In addition, the final rule will make 
OSHA’s reporting requirements more 
similar to the requirements of other 
agencies. For example, the National 
Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) 
requires aircraft pilots or operators to 
report aviation accidents involving 
death, serious injury, or substantial 
damage to an aircraft, as well as non- 
accidents that affect or could affect the 
safety of operations. The Federal 
Railroad Administration (FRA) requires 
railroads to complete reports and 
records of accidents and incidents. 
These accidents and incidents include 
significant injuries to or significant 
illnesses of railroad employees 
diagnosed by a physician or other 
licensed health care professional. They 
also include collisions, derailments, 
fires, explosions, acts of God, or other 
events involving the operation of 
railroad on-track equipment and causing 
reportable damages greater than the 
reporting threshold for the year ($9,200 
in 2010). 
Finally, the changes will make 
OSHA’s reporting requirements more 
similar to the current requirements in 
some states that administer their own 
occupational safety and health program, 
as follows: 
• Alaska requires employers to report, 
within 8 hours, occupational accidents 
that result in the death or overnight 
hospitalization of one or more 
employees (AS 18.60.058). This 
requirement has been in effect since 
1976. 
• California requires employers to 
‘‘report immediately by telephone or 
telegraph to the nearest District Office of 
the Division of Occupational Safety and 
Health any serious injury or illness, or 
death, of an employee occurring in a 
place of employment or in connection 
with any employment.’’ ‘‘Immediately’’ 
means ‘‘as soon as practically possible 
but not longer than 8 hours after the 
employer knows or with diligent 
inquiry would have known of the death 
or serious injury or illness’’ (Title 8, 
California Code of Regulations, Section 
342(a)). ‘‘Serious injury or illness’’ 
means ‘‘any injury or illness occurring 
in a place of employment or in 
connection with any employment which 
requires inpatient hospitalization for a 
period in excess of 24 hours for other 
than medical observation or in which an 
employee suffers a loss of any member 
of the body or suffers any serious degree 
of permanent disfigurement’’ (Title 8, 
California Code of Regulations, Section 
330(h)). This requirement has been in 
effect since 1979. 
• Kentucky requires employers to 
report workplace fatalities, amputations, 
and hospitalizations. Employers must 
report fatalities and hospitalizations of 
three or more employees within 8 hours, 
and amputations and hospitalizations of 
one or two employees within 72 hours 
(803 KAR 2:180). This requirement has 
been in effect since 2006. 
• Oregon requires employers to report 
work-related incidents that cause 
overnight hospitalizations, catastrophes, 
or fatalities, including heart attacks and 
motor vehicle accidents. Employers 
must report fatalities and catastrophes 
(three or more employees admitted to a 
hospital) within 8 hours of the incident, 
and overnight hospitalization of at least 
one employee for medical treatment 
within 24 hours of the incident (OAR– 
437–001–0700). The single- 
hospitalization requirement has been in 
effect since 1992. 
• Utah requires employers to report, 
within 8 hours of occurrence, work- 
related fatalities, disabling, serious, or 
significant injuries, and occupational 
disease incidents (Utah Occupational 
Safety and Health Rule, R614–1–5.C). 
This requirement has been in effect 
since 2002. 
• Washington requires employers to 
report, within 8 hours, the death, or 
probable death, of any employee, or the 
in-patient hospitalization of any 
employee (WAC 296–800–32005). This 
requirement has been in effect since 
2009. 
Note that, under the final rule, as 
under the proposed rule and the current 
regulation, employers are not required 
to report events resulting from motor 
vehicle accidents that occurred on a 
public street or highway, but not in a 
construction work zone (see Section 
1904.39(b)(3)). Employers are required 
to report events resulting from motor 
vehicle accidents that occurred 
anywhere else, including in a 
construction work zone on a public 
street or highway, or on other roadways, 
or off-road. 
A summary comparison of the 
proposed rule and the final rule is 
below: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:39 Sep 17, 2014 Jkt 232001 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4701 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\18SER2.SGM 18SER2asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with RULES2