
OSHA Letters of Interpretation - Part 1904
==========================================


2021-01-08 - Reporting two related reportable events.
-----------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2021-01-08

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
regarding the recordkeeping regulation contained in 29 CFR Part 1904 – Recording and
Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. Specifically, you ask OSHA to clarify whether
two related reportable events under 29 CFR 1904.39, “Reporting fatalities, hospitalizations,
amputations, and losses of an eye,” should each be cited for the purposes of OSHA
recordkeeping, or whether a company may report only the initial event.

In employee is seriously injured and is admitted to the hospital. The company reports the
in-patient hospitalization to OSHA within 24 hours of learning about it, in accordance with
section 1904.39(a)(2). While hospitalized, the employee undergoes surgery. Five days after
the surgery, the employee passes away due to this work-related injury. Based upon this
scenario, is the company required to make a “second report” of the initial injury that
resulted in the fatality?

An employee’s arm is severely injured at work, and the employee is admitted to the hospital.
The company reports the in-patient hospitalization to OSHA within 24 hours of learning about
it, in accordance with section 1904.39(a)(2). While hospitalized, the employee’s arm is
amputated due to the work-related injury. The amputation occurs within 24 hours of the work-
related injury. Based upon this scenario, is the company is required to make a “second
report” of the initial injury that resulted in an amputation?

It is not OSHA’s intention that related events, each of which are reportable under section
1904.39, be reported twice. If the in-patient hospitalization results in an amputation or a
fatality, the employer does not need to report the second event as long as the employer
initially reported the in-patient hospitalization within the 24-hour period. As OSHA
explained in the preamble to section 1904.39, the agency made amputations reportable because
data reflect that the majority of amputations do not involve in-patient hospitalizations. 79
Fed. Reg. 56130, 56146 (Sept. 18, 2014). However, OSHA specifically noted, “for amputations
involving in-patient hospitalization, employers will only have to make a single report.”

Finally, even though employers do not have to report the second event, they still need to
record the most serious outcome for each case on their OSHA injury and illness records, if
they are required to keep such records.

We hope you find this information helpful. OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards,
and regulations. Our interpretation letters explain these requirements and how they apply to
particular circumstances, but they cannot create additional employer obligations. This
letter constitutes OSHA’s interpretation of the requirements discussed. Note that our
enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we
update our guidance in response to new information. To keep appraised of such developments,
consult OSHA’s website at http://www.osha.gov .

Directorate of Technical Support and Emergency Management


----------------------------------------------------------------------


2015-04-15 - General requirements that applies to workers who drive heavy trucks and other commercial motor vehicles CMV on construction sites
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2015-04-15

General requirements that applies to workers who drive heavy trucks and other commercial
motor vehicles CMV on construction sites

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which
we received February 2, 2015. Because your letter involved construction issues, your inquiry
was forwarded to OSHA's Directorate of Construction. You asked about qualifications for
workers who drive heavy trucks and other commercial motor vehicles (CMV) on construction
sites.

OSHA has issued a general requirement that applies to workers at construction sites,
including drivers of heavy trucks and other CMV, in its Construction Standards at Subpart C
- General Safety and Health Provisions:

29 CFR 1926.20(b)(4) The employer shall permit only those employees qualified by training or
experience to operate equipment and machinery.

You can access this standard on OSHA's website at:
http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=10606 .

Employers who are transporting hazardous materials must comply with applicable U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) HAZMAT regulations. For more information on HAZMAT
transportation regulations, you may wish to visit the U.S. DOT, Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) website at http://www.phmsa.dot.gov . The PHMSA has
responsibility for the safe movement of HAZMAT by all modes of transportation.

Washington State operates its own occupational safety and health program under a plan
approved and monitored by OSHA. The Washington State Plan, which is administered by the
Department of Labor and Industries (DL&I), Division of Occupational Safety and Health
(DOSH), adopts and enforces standards and investigates safety and health concerns in
workplaces throughout the state. State Plans are required to have standards and enforcement
programs that are at least as effective as OSHA's, but may have different or additional
requirements. You can find more information about the Washington State Plan at its website:
http://www.lni.wa.gov/Safety/default.asp .

There is a wealth of information on OSHA's website, www.osha.gov , including the following
webpages that deal with safe truck driving and the trucking industry:

https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/motorvehiclesafety/construction.html

https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/trucking_industry/index.html

In addition, the following provide links to OSHA's worker rights, complaint, and
whistleblower webpages:

http://www.osha.gov/as/opa/worker/complain.html

http://www.whistleblowers.gov/complaint_page.html

Thank you for your interest in safety and health. I hope you find this information helpful.
If you have any further questions, feel free to contact the Directorate of Construction at
(202) 693-2020.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


2004-01-13 - Determining work-relatedness when the work event or exposure is only one of the discernable causes; not the sole or predominant cause.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2004-01-13

Determining work-relatedness when the work event or exposure is only one of the discernable
causes; not the sole or predominant cause.

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your comments pertaining to the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration's (OSHA) Injury and Illness Recording and Reporting requirements contained in
29 CFR Part 1904. Please accept my apology for the delay in our response.

Specifically, you ask OSHA to clarify in each scenario you describe; whether the employee
who sustains an injury or illness while he or she is engaged in an activity such as walking
or bending is considered work-related. As you note, a case is presumed work-related under
the recordkeeping rule if an event or exposure in the work environment is a discernable
cause of the injury or illness. The work event or exposure need only be one of the
discernable causes; it need not be the sole or predominant cause. The preamble to the rule
contains a passage that is relevant in determining whether this presumption applies in the
scenarios in your letter. The preamble states, in relevant part, as follows:

In applying [the presumption of work-relatedness],the question employers must answer is
whether there is an identifiable event or exposure which occurred in the work environment
and resulted in the injury or illness. "Thus, if an employee trips while walking across a
level factory floor, theresulting injury is considered work-related under the geographic
presumption because the precipitating event - the tripping accident - occurred in the
workplace. The case is work-related even if the employer cannot determine why the employee
tripped, or whether any particular workplace hazard caused the accident to occur. "

In each of the eight scenarios in your letter, the activity engaged in by the employee at
the time of the injury (walking, tripping, climbing a staircase, sneezing, bending down) is
an "event" which would trigger application of the presumption. In the absence of evidence to
overcome the presumption, the injury is work-related. Thus, in the absence of evidence to
overcome the presumption, an ankle injury caused by a trip that occurred while the employee
was walking down a level seamless hallway at work is work-related, regardless of whether the
accident is attributable to a defect in the hall. By the same reasoning, if the activity of
walking down a hallway caused the employee's knee to buckle or to sprain the ankle, the
injury is work-related. If an injury or illness did not result from an identifiable event or
exposure in the work environment, but only manifested itself during work, the injury is not
work-related. For example, if the employee had a non-occupational event or exposure, and
there is no evidence of a work-related event or exposure that was a cause of the injury or
illness, the injury should not be recorded.

You also ask whether the determination of work-relationship would be affected by the
existence of a pre-existing condition, whether work-related or non-work-related, affecting
the same body part that is injured. Under the rule, a pre-existing condition is an injury or
illness resulting solely from a non-work-related event or exposure. If an employee's pre-
existing condition is worsened as a result of an event or exposure at work, the case is not
work-related unless the work event or exposure "significantly aggravated" the preexisting
condition (i.e., the case meets the recording criteria contained in Section 1904.5(b)(4). If
the employee with a pre-existing work-related injury to a body part suffers a subsequent
work-related injury of the same type to the same body part, the subsequent injury is
recordable (assuming the general recording criteria are met) if it is a "new case" as
discussed in Section 1904.6.

Thank you for your interest in occupational safety and health. We hope you find this
information helpful. OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our
interpretation letters explain these requirements and how they apply to particular
circumstances, but they cannot create additional employer obligations. This letter
constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement
guidance may be affected by changes to OSHA rules. In addition, from time to time we update
our guidance in response to new information. To keep appraised of such developments, you can
consult OSHA's website at http://www.osha.gov . If you have any further questions, please
contact the Division of Recordkeeping Requirements, at 202-693-1702.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


2006-08-03 - Recording an injury when physician recommends restriction but no restricted work is available.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2006-08-03

Recording an injury when physician recommends restriction but no restricted work is
available.

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your March 24, 2006 letter to the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) regarding the Injury and Illness Recording and Reporting Requirements
contained in 29 CFR Part 1904. Specifically, you requested information on how to record a
work-related injury when a physician recommends a work restriction but the employer sends
the employee home because no restricted work is available.

Scenario: An employee is injured at work and placed on restricted work by a physician. The
employer is not able to accommodate the employee in a work restriction and sends the
employee home. Should the employer follow the physician's mandate and record the injury as
restricted work, or because no restricted work was available and the employee was sent home,
must the injury be recorded as days away from work?

Response: Section 1904.7 provides that a work-related injury or illness must be recorded if
it results in death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job,
medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness, or a significant injury or
illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professional.

Under the OSHA recordkeeping system, the employer has the ultimate responsibility for making
good-faith recordkeeping determinations regarding an injury and/or illness. Employers must
decide if and how a particular case should be recorded and their decision must not be an
arbitrary one. In addition, determinations concerning how and when to restrict an employee's
work activities can only be made by the employer.

The preamble to the 2001 final rule addressing OSHA's revised injury and illness
recordkeeping requirements in Part 1904 states:

"The final rule's restricted work provisions also clarify that work restriction must be
imposed by the employer or be recommended by a health care professional before the case is
recordable. Only the employer has the ultimate authority to restrict an employee's work, so
the definition is clear that, although a health care professional may recommend the
restriction, the employer makes the final determination of whether or not the health care
professional's recommended restriction involves the employee's routine functions. Restricted
work assignments may involve several steps: a Health Care Professional's (HCP)
recommendation, or employer's determination to restrict the employee's work, the employer's
analysis of jobs to determine whether a suitable job is available, and assignment of the
employee to that job. All such restricted work cases are recordable, even if the health care
professional allows some discretion in defining the type or duration of the restriction..."
See 66 Federal Register (page 5980, 3 rd column), January 19, 2001.

In the above scenario, the physician determined that the employee should be placed on a work
restriction, but the employer was not able to accommodate the employee and the employer sent
the employee home. Under Part 1904, because the employer has the ultimate responsibility to
determine if and how a case should be recorded, the case should be designated as "Days away
from work."

You also inquired about "publishing a book that would be easy to refer to in answering
recordkeeping questions." OSHA has a new publication called The OSHA Recordkeeping Handbook
on OSHA's Recordkeeping homepage, http://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping. The OSHA Recordkeeping
Handbook is a compendium of existing agency approved policy, including the 2001
Recordkeeping rule (Regulatory text and relevant decision discussion from the Preamble to
the rule), Frequently Asked Questions, and the Letters of Interpretation. The following
Letter of Interpretation is analogous to your question above, 06/23/2006 - No Restricted
Work Available, http://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/RKinterpretations.html.

Thank you for your interest in occupational safety and health. We hope you find this
information helpful. OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards, and regulations. Our
interpretation letters explain these requirements and how they apply to particular
circumstances, but they cannot create additional employer obligations. This letter
constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement
guidance may be affected by changes to OSHA rules. In addition, from time to time we update
our guidance in response to new information. To keep apprised of such developments, you can
consult OSHA's website at www.osha.gov. If you have any further questions, please contact
the OSHA Office of Statistical Analysis at 202 693-1876.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


2024-10-22 - Is the use of paraffin wax as a form of topical heat application considered medical treatment beyond first aid for OSHA recordkeeping purposes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2024-10-22

Is the use of paraffin wax as a form of topical heat application considered medical
treatment beyond first aid for OSHA recordkeeping purposes

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
regarding the recordkeeping regulation contained in 29 CFR Part 1904 - Recording and
Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. Specifically, you asked whether the use of
paraffin wax as a form of topical heat application is considered medical treatment beyond
first aid for OSHA recordkeeping purposes.

In your letter, you state that the application of paraffin wax is a well-known reputable
source among the medical community, similar to the use of heat wraps and Epson soaks in warm
water. You indicate that thermal modalities may help to relieve stiff muscles and joints by
improving circulation and increasing blood flow. You also state that the application of
paraffin wax does not require formal training or specialized degrees, and that paraffin wax
may be purchased over the counter and is often applied in spas and salons.

Section 1904.7(a) of OSHA's recordkeeping regulation requires employers to record work-
related injuries and illnesses that result in medical treatment beyond first aid. Section
1904.7(b)(5)(I) states that medical treatment means "the management and care of a patient to
combat disease or disorder." Under Part 1904, medical treatment does not include "first aid"
as defined in section 1904.7(b)(5)(ii). Section 1904.7(b)(5)(iii) goes on to state that the
list of treatments in section 1904.7(b)(5)(ii) is a comprehensive list of first aid
treatments. Any treatment not included on this list is not considered first aid for OSHA
recordkeeping purposes.

The regulation at section 1904.7(b)(5)(ii)(E) specifically states that the use of hot and
cold therapy to treat a work-related injury or illness is first aid for purposes of OSHA
recordkeeping.

OSHA has determined that the use of paraffin wax to treat a work-related injury or illness
is a heat treatment within the meaning of “hot or cold therapy” in section
1904.7(b)(5)(ii)(E) because the warm temperature of the paraffin wax in this application is
used to relieve pain by increasing blood flow, reducing joint stiffness, and relaxing
muscles. As such, when heated paraffin wax is used alone to treat a work-related injury or
illness, the treatment is considered first aid, and the injury or illness is not recordable.
Please note that the use of such treatments is considered first aid regardless of the number
of times paraffin wax is applied, where it is applied, or the injury or illness to which it
is applied.

However, in many cases, heated paraffin wax is used in combination with other methods to
treat work-related injuries and illnesses. For example, paraffin wax may be used along with
physical therapy, exercise, or prescription medication. In such cases, the use of paraffin
wax, in combination with another method that meets the general recording criteria, such as
medical treatment beyond first aid, job transfer, restricted work activity, or days away
from work, would make the case recordable. In situations where a worker sustains a
significant injury or illness, the case almost always involves some other form of medical
treatment (such as prescription drugs, physical therapy, or chiropractic treatment),
restricted work, or days away from work. See, OSHA’s discussion of hot and cold therapies in
the preamble to OSHA’s January 19, 2001, Occupational Injury and Illness Recording and
Reporting Requirements final rule, published in the Federal Register at 66 FR 5916, 5990.

The State of Indiana operates its own occupational safety and health program under a plan
approved and monitored by OSHA. Indiana Division of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSHA)
adopts and enforces standards and investigates safety and health concerns in workplaces
throughout the state. State Plans are required to have standards and enforcement programs
that are at least as effective as OSHA’s but may have different or additional requirements.

You may wish to contact Indiana OSHA (IOSHA) at:

Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration (IOSHA)

We hope you find this information helpful. OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards,
and regulations. Our interpretation letters explain these requirements and how they apply to
particular circumstances, but they cannot create additional employer obligations. This
letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the requirements discussed. Note that our
enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to OSHA rules.

Directorate of Technical Support and Emergency Management


----------------------------------------------------------------------


2026-01-20 - Recordability of workplace injuries resulting from personal rechargeable lithium-ion batteries.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source: https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2026-01-20

Recordability of workplace injuries resulting from personal rechargeable lithium-ion
batteries.

OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards and regulations. Our interpretation letters
explain these requirements and how they apply to particular circumstances, but they cannot
create additional employer obligations. This letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the
requirements discussed. Note that our enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to
OSHA rules. Also, from time to time we update our guidance in response to new information.
To keep apprised of such developments, you can consult OSHA's website at
https://www.osha.gov .

Thank you for your letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
regarding the recordkeeping regulation contained in 29 CFR Part 1904 - Recording and
Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. Specifically, you ask several questions
concerning whether injuries in the workplace resulting from the use of personal rechargeable
lithium-ion batteries are work-related for purposes of OSHA recordkeeping.

Scenario: In your letter, you describe a scenario in which employees bring rechargeable
lithium-ion batteries from home to the workplace for use in e-cigarettes, and that are not
used in any equipment or device related to employee work duties. You also state that, in
this scenario, the battery terminals are unprotected and the employee or employees
improperly carry these batteries in their pants pocket, a fire is sparked by the batteries,
and that the fire results in employee injury.

Question 1: Does the exception to work-relatedness in 29 CFR 1904.5(b)(3) apply to the
scenario above because it is not obvious whether the precipitating event occurred in the
work environment or occurred away from work?

Response: No, section 1904.5(b)(3) of OSHA's recordkeeping regulation does not apply in this
scenario, assuming that the employee was at your workplace during assigned work hours and
present as a condition of employment.

OSHA's recordkeeping regulation at 29 CFR 1904.5(a) states, the employer "must consider an
injury or illness to be work-related if an event or exposure in the work environment either
caused or contributed to the resulting condition or significantly aggravated a pre-existing
injury or illness. Work-relatedness is presumed for injuries and illnesses resulting from
events or exposures occurring in the work environment, unless an exception in § 1904.5(b)(2)
specifically applies." Section 1904.5(b)(1) defines the work environment as "the
establishment and other locations where one or more employees are working or are present as
a condition of their employment."

OSHA's approach to work-relationship in the recordkeeping regulation reflects two important
principles. The first is that work need only be a causal factor for an injury or illness to
be work-related. The regulation requires neither precise quantification of the occupational
cause, nor an assessment of the relative weight of occupational and non-occupational causal
factors. If work is a tangible, discernible causal factor, the injury or illness is work-
related. The second principle is that a "geographic presumption" applies for injuries and
illnesses caused by events or exposures that occur in the work environment. These injuries
and illnesses must be considered work-related unless an exception to the presumption in
section 1904.5(b)(2) specifically applies. Accordingly, the presumption encompasses cases in
which an injury or illness results from an event at work that is outside the employer's
control, such as a lightning strike, or involves activities that occur at work but that are
not directly related to production, such as horseplay. See, the preamble to OSHA's January
19, 2001, Occupational Injury and Illness Recording and Reporting Requirements final rule,
published in the Federal Register at 66 FR 5916, 5929. See also, e.g., OSHA's May 17, 2023,
letter of interpretation to Mr. Travis Vance.

In addition, OSHA recognizes that injury and illness rates do not necessarily indicate an
employer's lack of interest in safety and health. Both the Note to Subpart A of the
recordkeeping regulation (29 CFR §1904.0) and the Overview to OSHA Form 300, Log of Work-
Related Injuries and Illnesses ( http://osha.gov/recordkeeping/new-osha300form1-1-04.pdf )
expressly state that recording a case does not indicate that an employer or employee was at
fault or that an OSHA standard was violated.

Section 1904.5(b)(3) addresses the determination of work-relatedness only under
circumstances "when it is not obvious whether the precipitating event or exposure occurred
in the work environment or occurred away from work." In these situations, the regulation
requires the employer to evaluate the employee's work duties and environment to decide
whether it is more likely than not that one or more events or exposures in the work
environment either caused or contributed to the resulting condition or significantly
aggravated a pre-existing injury or illness.

Based on the scenario in your letter, the event that caused the injury to an employee is the
fire that occurred at the workplace. Assuming that, at the time of the injury, if the
employee was present in the worksite as a condition of their employment, it is "obvious"
that the event occurred in the work environment and section 1904.5(b)(3) would not apply. In
such cases, the injury must be considered work-related unless an exception in section
1904.5(b)(2) specifically applies. With regard to the improper carrying of lithium-ion
batteries, the nature of the activity which the employee engaged in at the time of the event
or exposure, the degree of employer control over the employee's activity, the preventability
of the incident or the concept of fault do not affect the determination of work
relationship.

Question 2: In the above scenario, is the precipitating event the improper carrying of the
lithium-ion batteries, or is the precipitating event the fire?

Response: In the above scenario, the precipitating event is the fire in the workplace that
injured the employee. In other words, the fire was the identifiable event that the burn
injury resulted from. See OSHA's discussion of precipitating events in the preamble to the
2001 final rule at 66 FR at 5959. However, as previously discussed, section 1904.5(b)(3) is
inapplicable in your scenario.

Question 3: Would the exception to work-relatedness at section1904.5(b)(2)(iv) apply in this
scenario because the injury is solely the result of an employee bringing something personal
on-site for the employee's personal use?

Response: No, the exception in Section 1904.5(b)(2)(iv) related to eating, drinking, or
preparing food or drink would not apply to the scenario you describe.

Section 1904.5(b)(2)(iv) provides that injuries and illnesses will not be considered work-
related if they are solely the result of an employee eating, drinking, or preparing food or
drink for personal consumption (whether bought on the premises or brought in). The injury
described in your letter does not fall within the exception in section 1904.5(b)(2)(iv)
because, at the time of the injury, the employee was not eating, drinking or preparing food
or drink for personal consumption.

In the preamble to the 2001 recordkeeping final rule, OSHA made clear that the eight
exceptions listed in section 1904.5(b)(2) are the only exceptions permitted by the
regulation to the geographic presumption set forth in section 1904.5(a). See, 66 FR at 5950.
As such, OSHA interprets the exceptions listed in section 1904.5(b)(2) narrowly and the
exceptions are applied to a given situation only when all conditions within a specific
exception are met.

In addition, the issue of whether to record injuries and illnesses resulting from employees
conducting personal tasks in the work environment was directly addressed by OSHA in the 2001
rulemaking. After careful consideration of the rulemaking record, OSHA concluded that it
would be difficult in many cases for employers to distinguish between work activities and
personal activities that occurred during the workday, and that the nature of the activity
the employee was engaged in at the time of the event or exposure is not relevant in
determining work-relatedness, except in those limited circumstances addressed by the
exceptions in section 1904.5(b)(2). See, 66 FR at 5954. Accordingly, the recordkeeping
regulation contains no general exception for purposes of determining work-relatedness for
cases involving employees engaged in purely personal tasks.

Finally, note that the recordkeeping regulation does include a specific exception at section
1904.5(b)(2)(v) that allows employers to exclude injuries and illnesses that are solely the
result of an employee doing personal tasks unrelated to their employment at the
establishment when these tasks are conducted outside of the employee's assigned working
hours. For purposes of the exception in section 1904.5(b)(2)(v), "assigned working hours"
means those hours the employee is actually expected to work, including overtime, and
"personal tasks" are those tasks that are unrelated to the employee's job. See, OSHA's
Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) 5-4 and 5-5. Based on the scenario you describe, there is no
indication that the injured employee was either carrying or using lithium batteries in the
work environment outside assigned working hours. As a result, the exception in section
1904.5(b)(2)(v) would not apply to your scenario.

Question 4: Does the personal grooming exception in section 1904.5(b)(2)(vi) apply under the
facts described above?

Response: No. The exception in section 1904.5(b)(2)(vi) related to personal grooming also
would not apply to the scenario you describe. Section 1904.5(b)(2)(vi) provides that a case
will not be considered work-related if the injury or illness is solely the result of
personal grooming, self-medication for a non-work-related condition, or is intentionally
self-inflicted. This exception allows the employer to exclude cases related to personal
hygiene, self-administered medications and intentional self-inflicted injuries, such as
attempted suicide. For example, a burn injury from a hair dryer used at work to dry the
employee's hair would not be work-related. Similarly, a negative reaction to a medication
brought from home by the employee to treat a non-work condition would not be considered a
work-related illness, even though it first manifested at work. See, 66 FR at 5951.

A burn injury resulting from carrying a lithium-ion battery for purposes of e-cigarette use
in the work environment does not fall within the exception in section 1904.5(b)(2)(vi)
because it does not involve personal grooming, self-medication for a non-work-related
condition, or an intentionally self-inflicted injury. Again, as noted above, the eight
exceptions listed in section 1904.5(b)(2) are the only exceptions to the presumption of
work-relatedness in section 1904.5(a) and, in order for a specific exception to apply, the
case must meet all conditions within that exception.

Question 5: Does it make any difference if the injury is caused (or was contributed to) by
the lithium­ ion battery being co-mingled with an employer-provided item, such as a metallic
key used at work?

Response: No. For reasons described above, none of the exceptions to work-relatedness in
section 1904.5(b)(2) apply to the scenario you describe. Therefore, for purposes of
determining work-relatedness, it makes no difference if the employee's injury was caused by
the lithium-ion battery being co-mingled with an employer provided item used at work.

We hope you find this information helpful. OSHA requirements are set by statute, standards,
and regulations. Our interpretation letters explain these requirements and how they apply to
particular circumstances, but they cannot create additional employer obligations. This
letter constitutes OSHA's interpretation of the requirements discussed. Note that our
enforcement guidance may be affected by changes to OSHA rules.

Directorate of Technical Support and Emergency Management
